mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me time . 
mr. chairman , refinery emissions cause asthma . 
since the refineries pose a threat to human health , they are regulated under the clean air act ; but this energy bill undermines epa 's ability to enforce clean air standards at refining facilities . 
the provision moves the task of environmental protection from the epa to the department of energy where it does not belong . 
the bill would place the secretary of energy in charge of the permitting process , the official record and the only environmental review document . 
doe is even given the power to issue permits which epa and state governments have denied . 
epa 's three decades of expertise would be supplanted by an agency without experience enforcing the clean air act . 
it may be time to expand existing refineries or build new ones , but epa is not the problem . 
epa has no outstanding refinery permit requests ; and if there were a problem , there would be a backlog , and there is none . 
putting doe in charge will create more bureaucracy , not more refineries . 
epa 's clean air act knowledge is an asset in expedited permitting , not a liability , because the doe is much more likely to issue permits that will be struck down in court . 
please vote for the solis amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of the capps amendment . 
this is really about what are we really doing here in congress . 
are we here to protect the profits of oil companies , or are we here to protect the states and communities from which we come ? 
let me just tell my colleagues the story as it applies to me . 
in 1995 , reformulated gas containing mtbe entered the marketplace in maine . 
two years later , the maine bureau of health reported that they found mtbe in 7 percent of maine 's public water supplies . 
one year later , in 1998 , it was found in 16 percent of maine 's water supplies . 
so that is how we learned about mtbe . 
but let us just go back 15 years , go back 15 years . 
in 1981 , shell engineers were joking that mtbe stood for most things biodegrade easier , or menace threatening our bountiful environment , or major threat to better earnings . 
we have had a discussion here about what members of congress knew back in the 1990s . 
what we know now is that the industry knew in the early 1980s that this was a hazard to groundwater and they went ahead and put it in the gasoline anyway . 
so now the question is , who pays ? 
the manufacturers or the taxpayers in all of our communities ? 
the majority is saying the taxpayers should pay . 
well , there is a court in manhattan yesterday , new york federal district court refused to dismiss 80 lawsuits brought on the ground that the majority is trying to eliminate , and the judge said , innocent water providers and , ultimately , innocent water users , should not be denied relief from the contamination of their water supply if defendants breached a duty to avoid an unreasonable risk of harm from their products . 
that lawsuit includes the state of new hampshire as plaintiff , many municipalities , the city of new york . 
so here we are , here we are . 
who will pay ? 
the majority says , certainly not the manufacturers . 
the capps amendment and we say , those responsible should pay . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of my friend 's amendment . 
when there is a decision being made to site a plant which , if there were an accident , could be catastrophic , i think that the people who make the decision whether to build the plant or not should be politically accountable to the people who live in the place where the plant is going to be sited , they should have visited the place where the plant is going to be sited , and they should have some clue as to what the locality is of where the plant will be sited . 
the issue is who gets to decide , a stranger or someone intimately familiar with the community . 
for all those who believe in home rule , vote `` yes '' on the castle amendment . 
mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this rule and the underlying bill because , despite republican claims , this energy bill really does not help american families with the cost of power or the skyrocketing gas prices . 
this bill does , however , help the administration 's special interest friends . 
it is riddled with billions of dollars of taxpayer giveaways to the nuclear , oil and gas industries . 
i am appalled that we are doing nothing to reduce gas prices at a time when oil companies are reaping obscene profits . 
current prices of oil are lingering at $ 50 a barrel and are expected to continue to skyrocket . 
we should be focusing on reducing our dependence on foreign oil by diversifying our energy sources , not by encouraging more oil and gas production . 
this bill does little to promote renewable energy , the energy of our future . 
given the latest revelations about the wanton falsification of scientific studies of the proposed yucca mountain repository , congress should not funnel one more penny of taxpayer dollars into the yucca mountain project . 
additional problems continued to plague the site . 
the courts have ruled that the epa radiation standards will not protect the health and safety of the american people . 
instead of making the united states safer , the proposed yucca mountain project provides a terrorist target that could cause massive economic and civilian casualties . 
in the committee on rules , my colleague , the gentleman from nevada ( mr. porter ) xz4003240 and i offered a simple amendment that would have included yucca mountain in the nuclear site threat assessment study , already a part of the energy bill . 
despite the findings of the gao and the national academy of sciences that there are security vulnerabilities present at reactor sites during high-level radioactive waste , there has been no threat assessment conducted at the mother of all radioactive waste sites , yucca mountain . 
regardless of how any of us feels about yucca mountain , the federal government has a duty to assess the risks , not just to protect nevada and our neighbors in the west , but for the well-being of our nation . 
unfortunately , the committee on rules did not put that amendment in order . 
now is the time to create an energy plan that will wean our country off of foreign oil . 
it is not the time to line the pockets of the special interests . 
i urge my colleagues to oppose this very backward , very foolish , very good piece of legislation if you are in the energy business . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from california ( mr. waxman ) xz4004250 for yielding his time . 
i rise in support of this amendment which would strike the provision in the bill to expand the number of assistant secretaries at the department of energy , one of which being an assistant secretary for improved management of nuclear energy issues . 
why are we creating a new position for nuclear power ? 
there is no assistant secretary for gas or oil or coal . 
nuclear energy should not be elevated above all the others . 
this administration continues to push for expanded nuclear power , despite having no solution for the issue of radioactive nuclear waste disposal . 
recently , the department of energy revealed that federal employees working on the yucca mountain project deliberately falsified scientific documentation regarding water infiltration and climate studies . 
the d.c . 
circuit court of appeals , the second highest court in the land , struck down the epa 's radiation standards , which they said were inadequate for a mere 290 , 000 years . 
yet the doe continues to move forward with its license application for a dump that will never be built and continues to spend billions of dollars of taxpayers ' money while they are doing it . 
before creating an assistant secretary for nuclear issues and increasing our reliance on nuclear power , we must find a safe and scientifically sound solution to the problem of disposing of tens of thousands of tons of radioactive , toxic nuclear waste . 
mr. chairman , yucca mountain is not a solution to our current problem , nor will it address the issue of storing newly created nuclear waste . 
creating yet another layer of bureaucracy is not the answer to this nation 's energy problem , and certainly the department of energy has done nothing , nothing in its history to warrant additional funding and additional support . 
mr. chairman , i feel like the skunk at the office party , but i rise to oppose the funding for the yucca mountain project contained in this bill . 
this bill shortchanges water projects and energy technology research and development , research into technologies to harness the sun and wind and reduce our dependence on foreign oil . 
yet there is 15 percent more funding for yucca mountain than there was in last year 's bill despite the fact that this project is unsafe and riddled with problems and , in my estimation , can and never will be built . 
i want to update my colleagues on the recent developments regarding yucca mountain , and i sincerely hope that they listen . 
last month , the department of energy revealed that scientists from the u.s. geological survey who were working on the water infiltration and climate studies at yucca mountain actually falsified documentation . 
water infiltration and climate are two of the most fundamental factors involved in establishing whether or not the proposed repository can safely isolate radioactive waste and prevent groundwater contamination . 
in all my years fighting this project , i knew yucca mountain was not scientifically sound , but i never dreamed and never thought that federal employees would purposely falsify documents to cover up the lack of basic science . 
in 90 pages of e-mails , the usgs employees fabricated dates and names of programs used in modeling for quality assurance audits and deleted information that did not fit favorable and hoped-for conclusions . 
the employees made it clear that quality assurance was not a priority of this project , but rather , an obstacle . 
let me share with my colleagues some of the comments made by these employees , and i quote : `` do n't look at the last four lines . 
those lines are a mystery . 
i 've deleted the lines from the official qa version of the files . 
in the end , i keep track of two sets of files , the ones that will keep the qa happy and the ones that were actually used. '' another e-mail says , `` like you said all along , the yucca mountain project has now reached a point where they need to have certain items work no matter what , and the infiltration maps are on that list . 
if usgs ca n't find a way to make it work , someone else will. '' and finally , `` i do n't have a clue when these programs were installed . 
so i 've made up the dates and names . 
this is as good as it 's going to get . 
if they need proof , i will be happy to make up more stuff. '' no one better dare say to me on this floor that yucca mountain is based on sound science . 
it is not . 
last year , the u.s. court of appeals ruled that the radiation standards for the proposed repository did not follow recommendations of the national academy of sciences and would not protect the health and safety of our nation . 
the difference between the findings and the radiation standards set by the epa , a mere 290 , 000 years . 
mr. chairman , the doe has known for some time that this project was fatally flawed , that corners were cut , that the science did not support the conclusions and that the data were doctored . 
that the doe continues to move forward with the complicity of this congress is nothing short of insanity , dangerous and insane . 
employees who have raised concerns have been intimidated into silence , and the workers were purposely exposed to hazardous conditions by contractors eager to win hefty cash bonuses . 
science has been manipulated to fit predrawn conclusions , and public safety and the environment have been sacrificed upon the altar of political expediency and greed . 
yucca mountain is a disaster waiting to happen . 
when you build a weak foundation , your building collapses , and that is why yucca mountain is collapsing before our eyes . 
doe is building yucca on a weak foundation based on lies , fraud , intimidation , deception and nonexistent science . 
we should be pouring our resources into renewable energy , harnessing the sun , harnessing the moon , not sticking our valuable resources into a hole in the nevada desert . 
if my colleagues think that nuclear waste is so safe , let them keep it in their own states , let them keep it in their districts , by their children , by their children 's schools , by homes and hospitals , synagogues and churches ; and do not travel across this country in order to stick it in a hole in the middle of the nevada desert . 
i urge us to reconsider this . 
let us change our direction before we go into something that is so disastrous and dangerous that we will never forgive ourselves and never be able to be forgiven by future generations of americans . 
mr. chairman , i offer an amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself 3 minutes . 
i am pleased to offer the bishop-markey-mcdermott en bloc amendment this evening along with my colleagues . 
we have an opportunity within our reach to make a real advancement in energy policy , but we are about to do the unimaginable : pass an energy bill that will do nothing to lower gas prices . 
let me say that again because i think it is important to our constituents who are paying $ 2.25 or more for a gallon of gas , this energy bill will not lower gas prices . 
in fact , according to the department of energy , this bill may actually increase future gas prices . 
fortunately , our amendment will help consumers see immediate relief at the gas pump . 
the bishop-markey-mcdermott amendment calls on the president to immediately suspend deliveries to the strategy petroleum reserve until oil prices fall below $ 40 per barrel . 
when we have done this in the past , the price of oil has dropped anywhere from $ 6 to $ 11 per barrel . 
the united states should be the global leader in the development of new and innovative technologies . 
this amendment will encourage the growth of an energy-efficiency marketplace that fosters and incubates new start-ups . 
this will not only lead to exciting new advances , it will help create good-paying jobs for thousands of americans . 
our amendment will create a $ 5 billion emerging-technology trust fund , funding the technologies of the future rather than the further counterproductive subsidies to the oil and gas industries provided for in the underlying bill . 
the bishop-markey-mcdermott amendment would also offer grants to states that meet new standards for efficiency in new building development . 
under our amendment , the renewable energy production tax credit will be extended for 5 years . 
we will provide tax credits for new homes that reduce energy use , as well as tax credits for new and existing commercial buildings to reduce energy use ; and we would also offer an investment tax credit for the development of higher efficiency heating and cooling systems . 
in short , we offer tax cuts and credits that america will embrace and at the same time create a cleaner and healthier environment for our children . 
we will allow consumers to make more informed decisions about energy-efficient appliances for their homes or businesses by adding greater meaning to the energy star label by mandating that only the top 25 percent of products will carry that label . 
currently , according to the alliance to save energy , approximately two-thirds of products are eligible to wear the energy star label , rendering the distinction almost meaningless . 
mr. chairman , let us give americans in the northeast and on the west coast something to cheer about . 
america needs electricity reliability and protection from fraud and blackouts . 
h.r. 6 would repeal the public utility holding company act . 
our act would strike that provision . 
puhca is the only line of defense for millions of taxpayers protecting them from skyrocketing energy costs and greedy corporations . 
we should not allow utility holding companies to use the profits obtained from their regulated business activities squeezed from their captive rate-payers and pour it down the sinkholes of unregulated businesses . 
puhca should not be repealed ; it should be applied appropriately and enforced . 
mr. chairman , h.r. 6 is anti-taxpayer , anti-consumer , and anti-environment . 
and i will say it again , it does nothing to lower gas prices . 
we can do better . 
the bishop-markey-mcdermott en bloc amendment offers real incentives for energy efficiency and real relief at the pump . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from washington ( mr. mcdermott ) xz4002620 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak ) xz4003910 . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
yes , i would , mr. chairman . 
it is , in fact , a drafting error . 
these efficiency standards were taken from the senate bill from the 108th congress and it is a drafting error . 
the date needs to be updated . 
if the gentleman can just give me one second . 
mr. chairman , i guess what i would say in response is that i understand the questions that the gentleman from texas is raising and i understand , i guess , the consternation that he has with respect to receiving such a lengthy amendment with little notice . 
i would only say that the underlying bill is equally complex , equally dense , and that there are sections of the underlying bill that were not subjected to hearings , as well . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich ) xz4002270 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind ) xz4002180 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new york ( mr. engel ) xz4001220 . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , i rise to express my support of the amendment offered by mr. castle to strike the liquefied natural gas ( lng ) siting provision in h.r. 6 . 
the language included in h.r. 6 silences the voices of state governments , local municipalities , and environmental advocacy organizations during the lng terminal site selection process . 
mr. chairman , the language in h.r. 6 solidifying ferc 's exclusive role in the siting of lng terminals is entirely unnecessary . 
until recently , only one lng importation terminal existed in the country . 
there are now five in operation and 6 more have already been approved by federal regulators . 
the process for selecting sites and approving lng importation terminals is working and in no way requires removing partial-authority from states . 
the new ferc rule would be another example of catering to the already too powerful oil and gas industry . 
furthermore , when i cast my vote in support of mr. castle 's amendment to preserve states ' rights and strike this language from h.r. 6 , i know that i will also be speaking for many others residing in my district and across the nation . 
numerous organizations and legislative bodies who seek to be heard will speak through my vote , including , but certainly not limited to the league of conservation voters , national association of counties , u.s. public interest research group , national league of cities , u.s. conference of mayors , and the national conference of states legislatures , and so many more . 
a quarter-mile long floating lng importation terminal has been proposed in the long island sound between connecticut and long island . 
lawmakers and civic organizations at every level of government in my congressional district have expressed their opposition to this proposal and are furious at the prospect that their voices will be silenced during the ferc approval process . 
mr. castle 's amendment , if passed , will allow their opinions to count . 
the long island sound is an environmentally unique estuary that needs to be protected . 
the residents and elected officials of long island have fought vigorously for many years and spent millions of dollars to preserve the quality of life that the long island sound offers . 
additionally , our tourism and fishing industries , which provide billions of dollars to the state 's economy , will be threatened , as fishermen will undoubtedly be displaced . 
mr. chairman , i will speak for my constituents by lending my support to mr. castle 's amendment . 
i urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan measure . 
mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman 's courtesy . 
we are fond of saying around here that the world changed after september 11 , but the energy bill did not . 
this bill is virtually identical to dick cheney 's energy task force and where the house has been these last 4 years with concerns , notwithstanding the enron scandal , skyrocketing gasoline prices and demands on scarce oil supplies in unstable parts of the world . 
it is ironic that the american public 's vision is much clearer than congress . 
they want to increase the cafe standards . 
the public has very clear views about the arctic wildlife refuge , that it is the last place america should look for oil , not the next place . 
they oppose a waiver and relief to the mtbe manufacturers at the expense of state and local authorities and the quality of local drinking water . 
this bill is looking at our energy problem through a rearview mirror . 
it gives too much to the wrong people to do the wrong thing and is dramatically out of step with what the american public wants and needs . 
the politics of today and yesterday 's policies do not provide an energy road map for the future . 
it is true that lots of people have been working very hard on this bill , but i would suggest that never have so many worked so hard and so long to do so little to change the direction of this country 's energy future . 
for the sake of the country , one hopes that there will come a time when the needs and wishes of the public is heard and it will be reflected in an energy policy for this century , cost-effective and rational ; preserving the quality of life , rather than operating on the cheap . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
today i am introducing an amendment to the energy policy act to create a new conservation and research program , conserve by bike . 
this is something that we discussed the last time we had an energy program before us . 
this was approved by a voice vote . 
this legislation represents a small but important step forward towards determining our energy future . 
there is much discussion on the floor about things that are mandatory . 
there are lots of things that make people cranky . 
this is one thing that will be able to help us move forward to actually take advantage of proven technology , and something that is a very positive development in each and every community across the country . 
bicycling , as virtually every member of this assembly knows , is one of the cleanest , healthiest , most efficient and environmentally friendly modes of transportation that exists . 
it is the most efficient form of urban transportation in history . 
as an alternative to automobile travel , bicycling can be an important element of a comprehensive energy conservation strategy . 
however , the relationship has not been adequately studied . 
the conserve by bike amendment recognizes that it is time to better understand the positive effects that bicycling can have on the conservation of our energy resources . 
the amendment seeks to ensure that the federal government educates the public and provides appropriate research into the benefits of bicycling as it relates to energy conservation . 
we are well aware of the health impacts . 
we are well aware of the opportunities that bicycling affords to young people , for example , to being able to have access to school . 
this assembly , just last month , has approved in our transportation legislation , almost $ 1 billion in safe routes to schools . 
with istea and tea-21 we have increasingly supported bike facilities through state , federal and local funding . 
this amendment will leverage these investments to help people take advantage of energy conservation choices they have in getting around their community . 
first , the amendment would establish a conserve by bicycling pilot program in the department of transportation , oversee up to 10 geographically dispersed pilot projects across the country designed to conserve energy resources , providing education and marketing tools to convert car trips to bike trips . 
in addition , the projects would encourage partnerships between stakeholders from transportation , law enforcement , education , public health , environment and energy fields . 
the project results in energy savings must be documented , and the secretary of transportation is instructed to report to congress the results of the pilot program within 2 years of implementation . 
according to the bureau of transportation statistics , bicycles are second only to cars as a preferred mode of transportation , demonstrating their potential for commuter use . 
in recent years there have been significant upgrades to bicycling environments in the communities across the country . 
at a time when these communities are seeking to reduce traffic congestion , improve air quality , increase the safety of their neighborhoods , decrease petroleum dependence , bicycles offer a relatively simple , energy-saving alternative to driving . 
at a time when we talk seriously about transportation alternatives as an important component to comprehensive energy conservation strategy , this gives us the elements to make sure that we can document the impact . 
the conserve by bike program is a critical step in the right direction . 
i strongly urge its adoption . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i appreciate the gentleman from texas ' ( mr. hall ) xz4001650 willingness to accept the amendment . 
what he said is true : there are over 100 million bicycles in this country . 
we have seen in community after community when there have been opportunities people bike . 
in my home town of portland , oregon , we have tripled the number of people who are commuting by bicycle . 
and when you take thousands of people off the road , it makes a difference in air quality . 
it makes a difference in congestion , and it makes a difference in terms of people 's health . 
this is a small step in the right direction . 
i urge its adoption , and i look forward to greater application in the future . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i appreciate the gentleman 's courtesy in yielding me this time and permitting me to speak on this and for his bringing this forward . 
it is an example of where we can take steps forward to deal with how we put the pieces together in terms of transportation . 
intelligent transportation has tremendous potential for energy savings , to put money back in the pockets of taxpayers and consumers around the country ; and it is an example that we do not have to make this equation quite as hard as we tend to on the floor of the house . 
this , i hope , is going to lead to a broader sense of application about how we squeeze more value . 
i appreciate the gentleman 's leadership in focusing on the notion of the $ 800 billion that is spent dealing with energy in this country . 
that is $ 800 billion ; yet the amount of money that is spent in research for government and for the private sector is arguably less than 1 percent , less than for any other major sector of our economy . 
i appreciate my colleague 's leadership in focusing on what impact research and technology can have in this critical area . 
by focusing on intelligent transportation , it will be one important area of research application that will make a difference for millions of americans , it will save hundreds of millions of gallons of fuel , and it will improve the quality of life for our communities in the offing . 
this is the sort of approach that will truly make our communities more livable , make our families safer , healthier , and more economically secure . 
i appreciate the gentleman 's leadership and strongly urge the adoption of this amendment . 
mr. chairman , three brief points . 
we are back here because of the obsession of the majority leader , the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay ) xz4001040 , to provide the relief to the oil companies . 
my friend , the gentleman from california ( mr. waxman ) xz4004250 , said that this was one of several oxygenated options . 
that is what the chairman of the committee raised . 
he did not pick one of them . 
the second point is that we have not voted on this . 
the procedural vote that we had yesterday was without the focus from the cbo that this is , in fact , an unfunded mandate . 
the people of this chamber will be voting with the knowledge that if they do not approve the capps amendment , they will be imposing unfunded costs . 
last , but not least , it is obscene that we would be transferring these costs to local communities when we are giving billions to the oil companies under this bill , and they are already enjoying unprecedented profits . 
it is not fair . 
it is not right . 
i strongly urge the approval of the capps amendment . 
mr. chairman , it is commonly heard that the world changed after september 11 , 2001 ; yet the energy bill did not . 
what congress is considering this week is virtually identical to that which came forth from dick cheney 's energy task force and the congressional process four years ago . 
the ever growing concerns about energy reliability , the enron scandal , skyrocketing gas prices , increasing demands on ever scarce supplies in unstable areas of the world all have not produced a change in the mindset of congress . 
at a time when we should call forth our best , the energy bill is both a mediocre effort and more appropriate for the 1950s than this new century . 
with the american energy experience over the last third of a century , public opinion has grown clearer while congress ' vision has not . 
with 10 percent of our energy use tied directly to our vehicular traffic , it is selfevident to the majority of americans that our fuel efficiency standards should be significantly increased . 
the japanese and europeans are already far ahead of us . 
even the chinese have now adopted more stringent fuel efficiency standards . 
congress can not keep up with the american public or the policymakers in china , japan or europe . 
the public knows that the arctic national wildlife refuge is the last place that america should look for oil , not the next place . 
the public supports investing in renewable energy sources , but this bill is heavily skewed towards more public subsidy of oil and gas interests , already awash in cash . 
these companies have ample money available to exploit energy resources in this country if they wish . 
alternative energy sources are shortchanged in this bill . 
it has been estimated that they get one dollar for every $ 363 invested in other sources . 
wind and solar energy are abundant , and non-polluting ; with a fraction of the resources lavished on traditional energy sources , alternative energy could increase the production and reduce cost . 
the public is not interested in cutting deals with special-interests at the expense of the environment and public health . 
this bill poses significant risk to air pollution and makes an unnecessary and unwise compromise with mtbe manufacturers at the expense of state and local authorities and the quality of local drinking water . 
i am opposed to a provision in the bill that shortchanges public participation in the hydropower relicensing process . 
by denying rights to private landowners , farmers , local businesses , tribes , fishermen , conservationists and others who share a direct interest in dam operations , the bill would make it less likely that license applicants would agree to an outcome that allows for energy generation as well as protection of the river ecosystem . 
in oregon , pacificorp is in the process of relicensing a number of dams on the klamath river . 
the company has been involved in an open and cooperative process with stakeholders , and i am concerned that the language in the bill would both undermine that progress as well as reduce incentives for other companies to engage in this type of open process . 
i am disappointed that congress defeated a number of democratic amendments that would have boosted fuel efficiency , removed language allowing drilling the arctic national wildlife refuge , kept in place important consumer protections , and reduced our dependence on foreign oil . 
i am pleased that one small , but important , step was taken by the acceptance of my amendment to establish a conserve by bike program . 
this amendment authorizes pilot programs and a national study that will help us better understand the benefits of converting trips from cars to bikes and how to educate people about these benefits in short , this bill looks at our energy problem through a rearview mirror ; it gives too much to the wrong people to do the wrong thing and is dramatically out of step with what the american public needs and wants . 
one can only hope that as it works its way through the senate , and as the public discovers what 's in this bill , that some of the more unfortunate provisions will be eliminated or modified . 
there will come a time in the foreseeable future when the needs of our country and the wishes of the public are heard and that will be reflected in an energy policy for this century that is cost effective and rational . 
mr. chairman , with great regret , but with even greater conviction , i rise in opposition to this bill . 
while this bill certainly has some worthy provisions , including those reported out by our committee , overall this bill is a step backward . 
this bill will not lessen our dependence on foreign oil , and it will do nothing to reduce energy prices . 
it will increase the deficit , weaken our economy , compromise our national security and endanger our environment . 
the supporters of this bill are certainly right about one thing . 
we desperately need a good national energy policy . 
this measure does not pass that test . 
our growing dependence on foreign oil puts us at the mercy of unstable and unfriendly foreign regimes . 
it gives terrorists additional targets and puts money in their hands . 
it weakens the dollar by worsening the balance of trade . 
we would start every day $ 500 million-plus in the hole on our balance of trade because of the imported oil . 
it pumps money out of the domestic economy and into the hands of those who would wish us ill . 
in short , our oil dependence represents a significant and growing threat to our national security , and national security should be first and foremost in the minds and hearts of everyone in this chamber . 
so what do we do to reduce our dependence on foreign oil ? 
yes , we need to increase the supply of fossil and nuclear and renewable energy . 
but most importantly , we need to become more energy efficient . 
and does this bill do to make us more energy efficient ? 
virtually nothing . 
the federal energy information administration found that last year 's energy bill would have almost no impact on energy demand and energy prices ; and that bill , if anything , made more of an effort to tame consumption . 
the alliance for an energy efficient economy has estimated that this year 's energy bill would not save a single barrel of oil by 2020 . 
that is both tragedy and farce . 
we know how to treat our oil addiction . 
we can make appliances more energy efficient without inconveniencing anyone . 
we can make our cars more efficient without sacrificing safety . 
my cafe amendment would reduce oil consumption in 2020 by 2 million barrels a day . 
that is more than twice the amount that is expected per day from drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge . 
what does this bill do instead of trying to make us more energy efficient ? 
at a time of fiscal crises and record oil prices , the bill provides new mandatory spending that will go directly to the oil industry , and it provides mandatory breaks for the oil industry on royalties . 
the bill provides massive tax breaks for profitable oil companies and next to nothing for new technologies that could help wean us from foreign oil . 
here is what the president said last week on that issue : `` with $ 55 oil we do n't need incentives to oil and gas companies to explore. '' the president 's budget devoted 72 percent of its proposed energy tax incentives to alternatives . 
this bill provides just 6 percent to alternatives while providing more than a billion dollars in additional tax breaks . 
we would not have to look far to come up with better ideas . 
while the house has been writing a bill based on ideological purity rather than careful analysis , others have come forward with bipartisan , sensible balanced approaches to energy policy . 
groups like the national commission on energy policy and the alliance to save energy and the energy future coalition have all offered carefully considered proposals that could have formed the basis of an effective bill with republican credentials . 
but instead , we have decided to close our minds and open our purse in a way that will harm taxpayers and consumers and weaken our economic health and national security . 
we can do better . 
we ought to do better . 
we have an obligation to do better . 
let us defeat this bill and start over . 
mr. chairman , i offer an amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself 1 minute . 
mr. chairman , let me make several quick points . 
first , we can not become less dependent on foreign oil unless we increase the fuel economy of our vehicles . 
we are importing 14 million barrels of oil every day . 
cars and light trucks consume 9 million barrels of oil every day , and consumption is going up not down . 
we are on a collision course with disaster . 
second , we have been losing ground on fuel economy . 
we use more gas to drive a mile today than we did 20 years ago . 
third , this amendment would cut , would cut u.s. consumption by 2 million barrels a day by 2020 , more of a savings than any other single source in the bill . 
fourth , the national academy of sciences said that full economy can be increased `` without degradation of safety. '' a representative of the alliance of automobile manufacturers confirmed at a recent science committee hearing that i chaired that cafe could be increased without compromising safety . 
finally , the biggest beneficiary of this amendment will be the consumers . 
they are sick and tired of paying skyrocketing prices for gasoline , $ 40 to $ 50 to fill up . 
they want relief . 
this amendment offers them hope that we are doing something about it . 
finally , support this commonsense science-based amendment that will help the nation while leaving more money in consumer 's pockets , theirs not ours . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. shays ) xz4003700 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from illinois ( mr. kirk ) xz4002220 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. platts ) xz4003210 . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , how much time do i have remaining ? 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , will the gentlewoman yield ? 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the amendment . 
just let me talk about the part that concerns me the most , which affects the director of the office of science . 
as i understand it , the concern about the bill is that it would create a new senate-confirmed position in the department , but the director of the office of science is already treated like an assistant secretary in all but name . 
he , or at points in the past she , is senate-confirmed . 
the office holder is paid at the same level as an assistant secretary . 
in fact , everything about the director slot is identical to being an assistant secretary except the name , and in protocol-driven washington and in capitals abroad , that can create confusion and be a problem . 
so i hope that when the senate comes back with this same provision , as i expect they will , we will be able to work it out based on the facts . 
all we are trying to do here is make sure the office of science , the leading funder of physical science research , has the stature it needs to do its job even better . 
this elevation will not create any more hierarchy at the department of energy , and it will not cost any additional money . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for his cooperation . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts for raising this point of order . 
i believe that it goes right to the heart of the problem with the mtbe provisions in this bill . 
they pass on huge costly problems to other parties . 
in this case , h.r. 6 would shift the costs of cleaning up mtbe groundwater contamination on to the towns , the cities , and the water districts around this country . 
in other words , it would shift these cleanup costs from the oil companies responsible for the mess to our constituents , who have to live with the mess . 
mr. speaker , mtbe has caused damage to the groundwater across our nation . 
it is found in 1 , 861 different water systems , 29 different states , serving 45 million people . 
cleanup costs are estimated at around 29 , maybe $ 30 billion . 
i might point out to my colleagues that there are about $ 2 billion in the lust fund , and it is to cover all kinds of leakage , not just mtbe . 
this is a huge problem , and it is not going away . 
it is the fault of the mtbe industry , and they should have to fix it . 
mr. speaker , the mtbe industry says it was forced to put mtbe in gasoline by the clean air act amendments of 1990 . 
there is no mtbe mandate in that law . 
even the chairman of the committee on energy and commerce has acknowledged that . 
industry representatives have testified before congress that mtbe has been widely used since 1979 . 
this is an arco circular from around the 1980s urging refiners to add mtbe . 
by the time of the 1990 clean air amendments , the industry had already added 120 million barrels of mtbe to gasoline . 
even more damning are the documents unearthed in recent court cases proving conclusively that the industry knew as early as the 1980s about the dangers mtbe posed to groundwater . 
it still went on adding it to gasoline . 
the special protection for mtbe manufacturers is in this bill because they are finally being taken to task for the damages they knowingly caused . 
recent court cases regarding responsibility for mtbe groundwater contamination have come down on the side of local water companies and cities . 
these cases have forced manufacturers to pay to clean up or replace mtbe-contaminated water supplies . 
the most celebrated has been the $ 60 million settlement for south lake tahoe and the nearly $ 400 million for santa monica . 
in my district , the tiny little coastal town of cambria had one of its two drinking water sources permanently damaged by mtbe . 
after it sued , cambria was able to get chevron to pay a $ 9 million settlement to help the town to build a desalinization plant ; but under this bill , the taxpayers of cambria , and of hundreds of towns , large and small , across this country would be forced to pay for the mtbe cleanup on their own . 
mr. speaker , the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern ) xz4002630 is right to raise this point of order . 
we should support the point of order and take this terrible provision out , which is going to force our constituents to shoulder the burden of cleanup on to the constituents . 
mr. speaker , i oppose this rule . 
i wanted to offer an amendment to remove the bill 's special protection for mtbe manufacturers , but with this rule , the house is deprived of that vote . 
the republican leadership knows it could well lose a vote on such amendment . 
mtbe is responsible , after all , for polluting groundwater in hundreds of communities . 
cleanup costs are estimated in the billions . 
currently , mtbe manufacturers are being held accountable in court , but this bill gives them safe harbor . 
many of us have water districts or towns with lawsuits against mtbe manufacturers that will be voided under this bill . 
for example , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. ferguson ) xz4001320 , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. garrett ) xz4001450 and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. frelinghuysen ) xz4001420 ; and from connecticut , the gentlewoman from connecticut ( mrs. johnson ) xz4002041 and the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. simmons ) xz4003750 ; and from my home state , the gentleman from california ( mr. herger ) xz4001760 , the gentleman from california ( mr. doolittle ) xz4001130 , the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo ) xz4003220 , the gentleman from california ( mr. cardoza ) xz4000650 , the gentleman from california ( mr. nunes ) xz4002970 , the gentleman from california ( mr. thomas ) xz4004010 , the gentleman from california ( mr. gallegly ) xz4001440 , the gentleman from california ( mr. mckeon ) xz4002670 , the gentleman from california ( mr. gary miller ) xz4002770 , the gentleman from california ( mr. calvert ) xz4000570 , and the gentleman from california ( mr. cox ) xz4000830 . 
just examples , all with pending lawsuits from a few of the 29 states being polluted with this mtbe in the groundwater . 
the special protection in this bill for mtbe manufacturers is completely unwarranted . 
it will cost our constituents a fortune . 
this is an unfair rule , and we should vote it down . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition , strong opposition to this bill . 
my colleagues have outlined the many problems with it . 
it does nothing to impact gas prices . 
in fact , according to the energy information agency , it will raise prices at the pump . 
it gives billions to industries with already-soaring profits , and it weakens a host of environmental laws . 
mr. chairman , one provision epitomizes the bill 's failures . 
h.r. 6 grants liability protection for people who make mtbe who are responsible for polluting groundwater in dozens of states , leaving hundreds of communities saddled with billions of dollars in cleanup costs . 
supporters claim it is fair to protect mtbe producers from liability since congress mandated its use in the clean air act , but there is no mandate for mtbe and even the chairman of the committee has acknowledged as much . 
in fact , 120 million barrels were added to gasoline before the clean air regulations were ever issued . 
most damning , documents unearthed in court cases show that manufacturers knew the dangers mtbe posed to groundwater , and they still added it to gasoline . 
the result is what we have today , over 1 , 800 contamination sites in 29 different states serving 45 million americans . 
i wanted to offer an amendment to strike this provision because in its wisdom the house leadership would not want to vote on this . 
perhaps it is because too many members on both sides of the aisle represent districts with bad mtbe problems in places where lawsuits are pending . 
because of the mtbe provisions alone , we should reject this bill . 
mr. chairman , pursuant to clause 11 of rule xviii , i offer an amendment that will strike an unfunded mandate in section 1502 . 
mr. chairman , could we discuss this , please ? 
reserving the right to object , mr. chairman , it is my understanding that the amendment will be recognized after the grijalva amendment and before the inslee amendment ; am i correct ? 
i yield to the gentleman from texas . 
mr. chairman , i withdraw my reservation of objection . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself 1 1/2 minutes , and appreciate the opportunity to bring this amendment to strike an unfunded mandate to the floor for debate . 
mr. chairman , this motion would do one thing : it would strike the safe harbor provisions for mtbe which cbo has identified as an unfunded mandate . 
this is cbo 's analysis of the bill , and i quote , `` section 1502 would shield manufacturers of motor fuels and other persons from liability for claims based on defective product . 
`` the provision would impose both an intergovernmental and private sector mandate as it would limit existing rights to seek compensation under current law. '' this provision in h.r. 6 transfers the cost of cleanups from responsible parties to constituents . 
it is an unfunded mandate , and it should be stricken from the bill . 
mr. chairman , this is a bad provision . 
mtbe contamination has averaged over 1 , 800 water systems in 29 states . 
cleanup costs are at least $ 29 billion . 
mtbe contamination is a huge problem , and it is not going away . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i am honored to yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi ) xz4003140 , our minority leader . 
mr. chairman , i yield for the purpose of making a unanimous consent request to the gentleman from rhode island ( mr. kennedy ) xz4002151 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from california ( mr. waxman ) xz4004250 , who represents santa monica , where a huge mbte pollution problem has occurred . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself 15 seconds . 
in response to the gentleman from new hampshire ( mr. bass ) xz4000190 , i show him the headline in the newspaper of a little town in my district , where they had to sue chevron for $ 9 billion for contamination of the water supply and it was settled out of court . 
they never would have gotten the settlement without the lawsuit . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 , the ranking member of the committee on energy and commerce . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. eshoo ) xz4001240 . 
mr. chairman , i am pleased to yield 2 minutes to my colleague , the gentleman from maine ( mr. allen ) xz4000070 . 
mr. chairman , i am pleased to yield 2 minutes to my colleague , the gentlewoman from california ( ms. solis ) xz4003840 . 
mr. chairman , i am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern ) xz4002630 . 
mr. chairman , i yield the remaining time to the gentleman from oregon ( mr. blumenauer ) xz4000330 . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote , and pending that , i make the point of order that a quorum is not present . 
mr. speaker , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. speaker , let me thank the distinguished whip for yielding . 
and i have listened to this colloquy . 
and let me try to add a little bit to it , if i might . 
first , i appreciate the leader 's acknowledgment on process because the process is very important . 
i think the debate that we are having on the floor should have been had prior to the rule being brought under a very partisan environment for passage on the first day of session . 
i think if we would have had a chance , democrats and republicans , to review the rules changes , some of the problems that are now being brought out by these rules changes would have been understood . 
so let me get to the policy issue that the leader brings up . 
and that is , yes , the chairman and ranking member can proceed to bring a matter before the full committee . 
but they do not have the investigative power in order to understand what is involved in the particular matter . 
i served on the ethics committee for over 6 years , during some very difficult times , including the bank issues , including a charge against the speaker of the house . 
and i can tell you this , that if we would have had a 45-day deadline considering an investigation of this matter , there would have been no way that we could have gotten the necessary votes to proceed . 
in my entire time on the ethics committee we never had a partisan division . 
we always were able to work out our issues . 
it was not easy . 
it took time . 
we had to sit down and listen to each other , get the facts . 
in reality , when you look at the rules that we are bound by and the facts , generally you will reach consensus and agreement within the ethics committee , and that is exactly what happens . 
but if the clock is running and there are only 45 days , and after that time there is an automatic dismissal , and that is what is in these rules now , it encourages a partisan division . 
it works counterintuitive to trying to work out what a consensus would bring out which is in the best interest of the institution . 
and i regret we did not have the opportunity to debate that during the process of the adoption of the rules . 
it is interesting to point out that the investigation and the charges that were held against speaker gingrich brought about a lot of controversy on this floor . 
and the majority leader and the minority leader at that time recognized that the only way that we could resolve rules changes was to set up a bipartisan task force , and that is when mr. livingston and myself were the co-chairs . 
and we listened to the debate . 
and due process for the member was a very important consideration . 
and we did change the rules in order to provide for that , but we did it in a bipartisan deliberation , and that was missing this time . 
and i regret that . 
would the gentleman yield ? 
very briefly ? 
let me just put out that when that issue was before the house , the former rules changes , we added a 180-day automatic dismissal that was rejected in a bipartisan vote by this body , just to point out to the distinguished leader . 
just to correct the record , and the leader is correct . 
we did vote against the package . 
the package was developed in a very bipartisan manner through the task force . 
there were some votes that took place on the floor of the house that were recommended against by the task force that changed some of the recommendations , and we had a motion to recommit to try to clarify that . 
the gentleman is correct on the final vote , but the package itself was very much developed in a bipartisan manner through the task force in a way that it should have been done , contrary to the process that was used on this rules package . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the amendment and in opposition to the underlying legislation . 
we need to increase our fuel efficiency if the u.s. is ever going to get serious about our energy crisis . 
last year , mr. chairman , i voted for this energy bill because i thought we needed a national plan , but that was when oil was selling at $ 30 a barrel . 
this year , when oil is averaging $ 55 a barrel and gas prices are nearly $ 3 a gallon in some places , it is bad public policy to add to the national debt , borrowing the money to give to companies who are making record profits . 
the american people deserve better . 
i ask for an `` aye '' vote . 
mr. chairman , let me make four quick points on this amendment . 
first of all , i completely and wholeheartedly support it . 
second , the credit for this amendment goes to my colleague and the senior democrat , the gentleman from hawaii ( mr. abercrombie ) xz4000010 who i thank . 
since i have almost all of the agriculture in my particular district , this shows teamwork . 
third , this morning , in kahalui , maui , the price of a premium gallon of gas was $ 2.98 per gallon . 
across the street from that gas station , stands one of the most highest yield sugar plantations in the whole world , a sugar plantation that is threatened across the way , threatened across the board . 
if we can produce ethanol from that sugar plantation , we can kill a bunch of birds with one stone . 
we can preserve agriculture in this country . 
this is revolutionary . 
if we can produce meaningful energy from prickly pears , or whatever you want , from sugar , all power to it ; it is going to work for all of us . 
if we can save the sugar industry by producing energy from the sugar industry , it will be good for us , and it will be good for many of the other issues that we care so much about . 
i urge adoption of this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i am very concerned about the process by which terminals for lng will be selected in this country . 
let me say , i support natural gas . 
i support the use of liquefied natural gas . 
i understand we need ports . 
i also understand the nearer they are to the pipeline the better off we are . 
but the bottom line is that the process that is in this legislation which supplants the existing process , in my judgment , tramples on the rights of the states and the individual communities , as they have indicated in their letters to us , to be able to influence these decisions that are made . 
if you read this carefully , you will see that h.r. 6 requires ferc to consult with the state , but it clearly removes the directive that ferc base its decision on community support or opposition , which it does now . 
states do a heck of a lot more than consult . 
at times they can object entirely . 
there may be problems . 
in the case of one being located in the delaware river , new jersey has some problems with it , in terms of boats being able to turn and environmental issues , whatever it may be . 
there are a lot of problems across the united states of america . 
my judgment is that we are taking absolutely the wrong step by this rather strong measure that turns over to this federal commission the right to make local decisions . 
that is something that none of us in the congress of the united states should endorse . 
so for that reason i hope the amendment reverting to where it was before would be accepted . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey ) xz4002530 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from oregon ( mr. wu ) xz4004370 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. andrews ) xz4000080 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. shays ) xz4003700 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from rhode island ( mr. kennedy ) xz4002151 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey ) xz4002530 . 
mr. chairman , it is my understanding that the chairman of the committee has the right to close ? 
he is the only speaker they have . 
i am the final speaker . 
i yield myself the balance , which i believe is 2 minutes . 
mr. chairman , actually the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 and i were just discussing this . 
it is a shame we do not have more time for this amendment . 
it is a pretty significant amendment . 
it is complicated , and i have spent a lot of time trying to educate myself as to what the procedures were before and what they are now . 
it could be a little bit difficult , and there is a court suit pending in california , and obviously we need this . 
i will be the first to tell my colleagues that . 
on the other hand , for the states and the local areas to give up their jurisdiction and their ability to influence this decision , i think would be absolutely wrong . 
i have read this statute very carefully . 
for instance , it says on page 13 : `` the term `federal authorization ' means any authorization required under federal law in order to construct , expand , or operate a liquefaction or gasification natural gas terminal , including such permits , special use authorizations , certifications , opinions , or other approvals as may be required , whether issued by a federal or state agency. '' you are basically taking what has been partially codified and developed by procedure , and you are trying to codify it here in what is a much tighter measure , giving to the energy commission the ability to make the decision and overrule what happens at the state and local levels . 
that is the problem that i have . 
and certainly the chairman may get up and say , well , that is not quite what it is . 
it certainly can be interpreted that way . 
if we look at this language , it certainly appears to be that way , as far as i am concerned . 
they talk about safety inspections . 
that is after it has already been built . 
so that does not do us any good as far as the original preparation is concerned . 
i think we need to do more than just consult . 
that is what the state role now becomes ; it becomes consulting . 
and let me tell my colleagues something . 
this may be more than just the terminals for lng . 
this could end up being other things , not in this legislation necessarily , but this commission could reach out and start to deal with energy lines , could start to deal with pipelines and a variety of other things , taking away the local jurisdiction over land . 
if we want to protect what happens at our homes , we need to have a process by which we involve the local community , and by involving the local community , we make the right decisions . 
yes , we have to make them , but let us not forget the states and the local communities ; and that is what , in my judgment , this legislation would do if we do not amend it . 
support the castle amendment . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , this debate comes down to fact v. fiction . 
fiction -- the other side argues that drilling in pristine areas will lower gas prices . 
fact -- the president 's top counselor dan bartlett said this week that there is no magic wand to reduce gas prices . 
fiction -- opening anwr will relieve the u.s. from turning to foreign sources . 
fact -- this bill makes our country more dependent on fossil fuels from places like the mid-east as scientists of all ideologies have stated that the limited amount of oil will not result in a lessening of oil dependency for the u.s. fiction -- opening anwr will weaken opec and strengthen the u.s. fact -- the bush administration 's own department of energy contradicts this point , when it determined last year that if world oil markets continue as they currently do , opec could `` countermand any potential price impact of arctic refuge production by reducing its exports by an equal amount ? 
`` fact -- drilling in anwr will not lower gas prices at the pump ; will not protect our national sovereignty , and will not reduce our dependence on foreign oil . 
fact -- vote for markey-johnson . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the solis amendment to the energy bill . 
this amendment ensures that the federal laws and regulations that pertain to ensuring clean air and water and a solid quality of life for our constituents are not stripped out just because they or their community is facing some economic distress . 
specifically , the solis amendment would strip out language that cynically allows refineries to move into economically distressed communities , override federal environmental laws , trample on local zoning laws and ignore community opposition to set up shop . 
the fact that this bill allows the oil companies to ride roughshod over those communities facing tough economic times is a travesty . 
urban and rural communities facing tough times can not and should not serve as dumping grounds for the oil industry . 
just because a community is facing an economic downturn is no reason to say that population can now be exposed to refineries and their byproducts in their community -- and that these people do not deserve the protections of the clear air act as just one example . 
the house has the opportunity to strip out the special rights and ensure equal rights for all of our constituents . 
while i represent new york city and do not see any oil refineries planning to set up shop there any time soon , this amendment is an attack on all communities facing tough times and will lead to greater victimization of people suffering . 
please support the solis amendment and strip out the damaging special rights for refineries in this bill . 
mr. chairman , while vice president cheney still refuses to release the records of his energy task force , it is obvious from the bill under consideration today who participated in the task force and who shaped the energy policy act before us . 
for the uninitiated , let me tell you , it was the big oil , coal , natural gas , and nuclear energy companies and concerns who shaped this legislation . 
according to the congressional research service , u.s. energy consumption has almost tripled between 1950 and now . 
the u.s. has 3 percent of the world 's oil reserves -- but now uses 25 percent of the oil produced in the world . 
in 2003 , our nation used approximately 20 billion barrels of petroleum per day -- while producing just under 6 billion barrels of crude oil . 
how much has our energy use increased ? 
our petroleum usage in 2003 was almost 3 times higher than it was in 1950 . 
our consumption of natural gas in 2003 was almost 4 times greater than in 1950 . 
our consumption of coal in 2003 was double the amount we used in 1950 . 
in fact , today , in 2005 , 86 percent of the energy we consume is still generated through the use of non-renewable fossil fuels . 
america 's energy policy at this critical time should pioneer the use of renewable fuels and move our nation away from dependence on fossil fuels . 
at a minimum , national energy legislation should reduce our dependence on foreign oil however , the u.s. energy information administration has concluded that the legislation before us today will not support the development and wide usage of renewable fuels or even reduce our reliance on foreign oil . 
in fact , the energy information administration concludes that the bill will reduce oil imports by just over 1 percent by 2025 -- 20 years from now . 
while not taking any responsible steps to lay the foundation for a new energy policy in america , the bill before us does provide $ 8 billion in tax breaks for the energy industry . 
in keeping with the basic irresponsibility of this legislation , less than 10 percent of these tax breaks will go to the renewable fuel industry . 
h.r. 6 would also allow drilling in the arctic national wildlife preserve despite the fact that the u.s. geological survey has estimated that there is less than a year 's supply of oil in the preserve . 
only 15 percent of federal land in the rocky mountain states is currently off-limit to oil drilling . 
a total of 42 million acres of federally held land are currently leased to oil and gas companies . 
there is no reason to expand drilling to include alaska 's wildlife preserve . 
similarly , h.r. 6 would provide $ 2 billion to support research on recovering oil and gas resources from the deep waters in the gulf of mexico -- despite the fact that oil companies are generating record profits . 
h.r. 6 would also limit the liability of mtbe manufacturers for pollution to drinking water supplies despite the fact that the use of mtbe was not mandated and that there was evidence even before it was widely used that it could be harmful to drinking water supplies . 
the costs of cleaning up mtbe pollution will be in the billions of dollars -- far more than many local jurisdictions can afford to pay from their own resources . 
while the groups who met with vice president cheney were clearly focused on maintaining the status quo in america 's energy policy , there are in fact many things that can be done to decrease our dependence on fossil fuels and particularly to decrease our dependence on foreign oil . 
we can support increased energy conservation . 
we can revamp -- not repeal -- the public utility holding company act . 
we can implement policies to reduce the ability of energy traders to manipulate markets and rates . 
further , we can increase spending on the development of bioenergy and other renewable fuels . 
for example , the 2002 farm bill authorized $ 150 million in spending in fiscal 2006 to support bioenergy initiatives . 
however , the president 's short-sighted fiscal 2006 budget proposes to limit expenditures on these initiatives to just $ 60 million . 
such reductions in spending on bioenergy -- especially given the provisions of the h.r. 6 -- are misguided . 
h.r. 6 does not provide the new energy policy we so desperately need . 
i urge a no vote on this legislation . 
mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this rule and urge its defeat . 
this is a bad bill for my state of florida . 
the bill could be made much better , including by an amendment that i have offered , that the committee on rules refused to be made in order . 
this bill , in my judgment , guts the coastal zone management act . 
what is this law ? 
this is a law that allows governors , governor jeb bush , governor arnold schwarzenegger , to have their voices heard as to where a particular facility might be sited . 
it does not give the state a right to veto the decision , just simply to have its voice heard . 
what this bill does is undermine that process that has worked very well for decades , and the rule deprives the house of representatives of an open and honest debate about the fact that this bill is tantamount to repeal of the coastal zone management act , and i do not think any member of congress wants to stand on this floor and admit or agree that we should repeal the coastal zone management act . 
we are once again , remarkably , trampling on the rights of our states . 
we are substituting the judgment of governors with bureaucrats in washington that are expected to understand our states better in terms of environmental impact , in terms of economic impacts . 
the beaches on the coast of state of the florida should be judged and policed by the governor of the state of florida , not by somebody in an agency in washington . 
i urge defeat of the rule . 
mr. chairman , i support this bill so that we can , and the public can , rely on the energy-conscious information that they are getting and that they know that is correct and accurate , and they can move forward with that . 
mr. chairman , members , are your constituents also asking you what you are doing about high gas prices ? 
we must answer that question in this bill . 
individuals can do something about their gasoline consumption when they select a car to buy . 
we need to help them . 
people expect that , when they look at the window sticker , the miles per gallon figures that the epa supplies are what they will get when they purchase the car . 
they are not . 
when one of my staff members complained to the car dealer that the gas mileage figures were way off for city driving for the car she had selected for its fuel efficiency , the dealer said , `` oh , that does n't apply to driving in dc. '' i support this amendment because it would require the epa to correct the long-standing inaccuracies in its testing procedures . 
our constituents must be able to rely on these facts to be the energy-conscious consumers they want to be . 
mr. chairman , i rise regrettably in opposition to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act . 
while there are many good provisions in the act that make modest improvements in support of energy efficiency , there are major deficiencies in this bill . 
my constituents are very clear about the problems they face . 
first , gas prices are too high at the pump . 
second , our country will always have to rely on foreign-produced oil . 
third , the costs of electricity have been inflated by the manipulations of energy corporations which have not been required to refund their illegal profits . 
in addition , many are concerned about the effect of greenhouse gas emissions . 
this measure does not strongly address these issues . 
the cost of gas is a function of supply and demand . 
this body had the opportunity to enact a wisely balanced policy to reduce the demand for oil in this country and to address the supply of fuel by investing aggressively in alternative energy sources . 
the president 's own energy administration have said this bill will have only negligible impact on production , consumption and imports of oil . 
in fact , they said it will probably increase the price of gasoline by 3 cents per gallon . 
what this bill does is to authorize more money for existing energy producers to increase oil drilling in sensitive areas for sources of supply that will not greatly reduce future reliance on foreign oil . 
the president himself declared that with oil costing over $ 50 per barrel , the oil industry does not need further incentives to increase production . 
price alone does that . 
yet , this bill provides $ 8 billion in subsidies for the oil and gas industry . 
the president proposed $ 6.7 billion for tax breaks for energy with 72 percent invested in renewable energy sources and energy efficiency . 
instead , this bill reduces that investment to 6 percent . 
even an existing program to provide tax credits for wind power will sunset this year and has not been renewed in this bill . 
yet , high costs of electric energy must be reduced by use of renewable sources for power . 
a major way congress could have acted to reduce petroleum demand would have been to increase fuel efficiency standards for automobile fleets . 
a major report by the national commission on energy policy advocated enhancing oil security by reforming and significantly strengthening vehicle efficiency standards . 
within a relatively short time , expanding the production of vehicles with existing technologies could have reduced fuel consumption of automobiles and u.s. oil demand . 
yet , an amendment to increase fuel efficiency standards failed . 
the commission also advocated providing $ 300 million per year in manufacturer and consumer incentives for production and purchase of efficient hybrid-electric and advanced diesel vehicles . 
this bill falls short of that goal , providing only $ 35 million for 2006 for grants to develop hybrid technology and no funding for incentives to manufacture or purchase them . 
regrettably , the amendment to strike drilling for oil in the arctic national wildlife refuge also failed . 
drilling there would not address the near-term supply of oil and therefore gas prices and is not projected to have a major impact on reducing dependence on foreign oil . 
in fact , this country can not be self-sufficient in oil . 
we must reduce our demand . 
related to an issue of great concern to californians , the bill protects producers of the additive mtbe from liability for their knowing sale of a product which seeps into local water supplies rendering them toxic . 
initially , an amendment striking this was not allowed to be debated and voted . 
states like california could be stuck with paying the estimated $ 29 billion bill for cleaning up these sites of leaking storage tanks and polluted water supply . 
there are a host of other issues that affect my constituents on the coast of california . 
these relate to the ability to appeal decisions under the coastal zone management act and incentives for drilling for oil on the outer continental shelf . 
the bill removes the power of states to determine siting of liquefied natural gas facilities . 
there are also provisions which will reduce the incentive for states to clean their air , thus increasing global warming . 
in addition , the bill increases the power of the federal energy regulatory commission , the body which has failed to order appropriate refunds for california utility consumers based on the 2000-2001 manipulation of the power market . 
while i applaud a number of measures , like continuing the energy star program for appliances and providing grants of $ 50 million in 2006 to develop or promote photo voltaic technologies , these measures are modest compared to the overall need for investing in alternative energy sources and passing measures to decrease our dependence on petroleum . 
madam chairman , over the past couple of years i have corresponded with the department of energy on an issue of particular concern to me . 
the department of energy continues to spend millions of dollars , over $ 60 million so far , to defend private contractors who caused injury to citizens downwind of the hanford nuclear reservation despite provisions of the price anderson act to the contrary . 
the american taxpayers should no longer have to bear the burden of defending private contractors who have harmed citizens . 
i would like to submit my most recent letter to the department of energy and asked that it be made part of the record . 
march 4 , 2005 . 
dear mr . 
secretary : thank you for your september 2003 response to my questions about the hanford nuclear reservation case . 
however , i have ongoing concerns about the department of energy 's ( doe ) willingness to represent dupont and general electric at a cost of millions of taxpayer dollars . 
i believe that the department 's financial support is not only ill conceived , but that it violates the intent of congress in passing the price anderson act ( paa ) . 
regarding question numbered `` 2 '' of the 2003 letter , we have been informed that while the district judge accepted the defendants ' standard of proof for injuries , that decision was soundly reversed by the ninth circuit on the merits . 
i am concerned that doe continues to fund , at considerable taxpayer expense , an ongoing series of technical motions by the contractors . 
it was the intent of the congress of the united states when it enacted the price anderson act , to encourage the development of nuclear energy and at the same time to provide `` full compensation to the victims of nuclear incidents , '' including the people who were exposed to radiation from nuclear facilities such as hanford . 
the actions of the department of energy in spending large sums of taxpayer dollars to forestall compensation to citizens who were exposed to radiation releases from hanford , represents action by a federal agency that is directly contrary to the intent of congress . 
i recently learned that federal judge nielsen , on march 30 , 2004 , rejected the motion of dupont and general electric that they be dismissed from the case because they contracted with the government to run hanford . 
in underwriting such a motion with taxpayer funds the department violated the intent of congress in passing the price anderson act . 
the fact that the paa reimburses the companies when people are injured from a nuclear incident precluded the necessity for a `` contractor immunity '' defense as judge neilsen held . 
i have now learned that you intend to financially support an appeal of that order . 
any further attempts to evade the intent of the paa by the doe we believe to be a serious concern for the congress . 
your letter notes that the doe does not `` disagree with the proposition that low doses of radiation can cause some forms of cancer. '' in addition , there are government studies that show exposure to radiation contributed to the onset of the claimants ' illnesses . 
yet the doe continues to defend the contractors . 
it would appear that contrary to the fact that workers can be compensated for thyroid cancer , non workers who were exposed to more iodine 131 than many workers would be denied similar treatment . 
i do not understand this logic . 
what policy consideration drives this inconsistent behavior ? 
i also learned that the motions of dupont and general electric to have all cases dismissed as being filed too late based upon the statute of limitations has been dismissed . 
more than $ 60 million of taxpayer funds have been spent by dupont and general electric for 15 years of loosing motions and adverse rulings . 
again , i do not understand why the department of energy continues to spend millions of dollars paying lawyers to attempt to defeat claims that the congress of the united states determined should be compensated . 
i further note that the hanford plaintiffs were just successful in filing a motion declaring that the operations at hanford were an `` ultra hazardous activity. '' this holding is consistent with congress ' findings regarding the operations of nuclear facilities . 
we note again that the department of energy spent thousands upon thousands of dollars defending this untenable defense ( energy employees occupational illness compensation act of 2000 , 42 u.s.c . 
7384 et seq ) . 
i understand that a trial date has been set , and that general electric and dupont are taking the position that iodine 131 , which was released in enormous quantities from hanford , does not cause thyroid cancer . 
is that the position of the department of energy ? 
if not , please explain if the department is taking the position that the price anderson act does not apply to a person exposed to radiation below a certain dose , and if so what that dose is . 
i understand that several million dollars more could be spent in the next year or two continuing to defend this action . 
that would result in taxpayers ' money approaching the $ 100 , 000 , 000 being paid to lawyers to prevent compensation to victims of radiation exposure from hanford . 
all of the defenses you have previously supported have been rejected by a federal court . 
has the department of energy authorized any amount of money for settlement of this case ? 
it would appear that more money may well be spent to thwart the intent of the price anderson act than would be spent in victims ' compensation . 
please provide me with a detailed justification for any continued payment by the department of energy for the defense of this litigation , including specific justifications for any motions currently or intending to be filed or appealed seeking to dismiss most or all of the cases and why such action does not violate congress ' intent in enacting the paa . 
sincerely , peter defazio , mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this legislation -- an $ 88 billion giveaway to the oil and gas industry that does nothing to alleviate the record high costs of oil and gas . 
at a time when science and common sense tells us we should be doing more research into alternative energy and less drilling in our precious public lands , this bill provides $ 8 billion in tax breaks for companies to do more drilling and less research into alternative energy . 
in an $ 88 billion bill , less than $ 500 million is dedicated to any kind of renewable energy research . 
the legislation promotes drilling in the last vestiges of the great american frontier -- places like alaska 's arctic refuge and the rocky mountain front -- ruining forever these examples of nature 's magnificence all for what amounts to 5 percent of a one year 's supply of oil . 
at the same time , it authorizes $ 80 billion in new spending to assist the big oil companies -- one reason conservative organizations such as taxpayers for common sense and citizens against government waste oppose this bill . 
just yesterday , the president expressed similar concerns as well . 
another provision gives legal protection to producers of mtbe -- a substance if consumed can cause a variety of health problems . 
i would like to also express my concern about two very important sections of this bill . 
section 330 limits the ability of state governments to oversee the permitting process of pipeline construction projects or construction of lng facilities , placing that responsibility solely within the ferc , with states relegated to a consultative role . 
this would eviscerate my state government 's ability to regulate proposed projects in the long island sound , despite the state 's undisputed leadership in the clean-up of the sound . 
to say we do not trust connecticut to act in the best interests of one of its most prized natural resources is bad public policy and i hope that an amendment offered by mr. castle to strike this section will be adopted . 
rather , we should be reducing our dependence on foreign oil by improving our energy efficiency and maximizing our domestic energy production in an environmentally-sound way -- by investing in cleaner , more secure energy sources such as solar , wind , biomass and fuel cell technology . 
my state of connecticut is a leader in fuel cell technology , with several businesses doing research that is on the cusp of revolutionizing the way our nation powers its homes , cars and businesses . 
this bill should be investing in american small businesses like proton energy in wallingford , nxegen in middletown and danbury 's fuel cell energy -- companies that already do over $ 300 million worth of fuel cell business and move us closer to true energy independence . 
that is the future of energy in this country , and that is what this bill should be encouraging . 
by pressing for 20th century solutions to deal with 21st century energy challenges , this majority continues us down the road of ever-rising gas prices , harming our economy and leaving middle-class families to bear the brunt of the cost . 
and that is no plan , mr. chairman -- it is an abdication of our responsibilities . 
oppose this bill . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern ) xz4002630 for yielding me this time . 
this is a bad bill . 
it is a bad rule , unfair ; and the procedure is unfair and bad . 
the rule does not allow an amendment that i submitted with the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 and the gentleman from new mexico ( mr. udall ) xz4004122 , which related to the outrageous hydroelectric relicensing provisions in the bill ; nor does it allow an amendment by the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 to strike the unjustified and unjustifiable gifts to the producers of mtbe . 
and last of all , it denies the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak ) xz4003910 the right to offer an amendment to stop natural gas and oil companies from drilling in the great lakes . 
i tried to fix the hydroelectric section of this bill , which creates new rights and procedures for the licensing of dams that generate electricity from our rivers . 
it gives these rights only to one group of people , the electrical utilities . 
others who have legitimate concerns , the cities , the sportsmen , the states , the indian tribes , the conservationists , the irrigators , farmers or ranchers are not afforded that same right , a grotesquely unfair procedure . 
the bill also allows utilities alone to propose alternatives to the resource provisions recommended by the secretaries of the interior , agriculture or commerce , that must , must be accepted if they meet certain criteria . 
again , none of the legitimate other parties to the procedures are given this right . 
this is grotesquely unfair . 
the rivers produce power . 
they are public resources , not the playthings of private utilities . 
the amendment we submitted would have corrected a number of the most egregious abuses unless in this section we apply the new rights to all parties in equal fashion . 
but by not allowing this amendment , that is foreclosed . 
the bill also forecloses a vote on the billions of dollars bestowed in this bill to producers of mtbe . 
again , a grotesquely and unfair and unwise proposal . 
finally , the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak ) xz4003910 sought to offer a simple , straightforward amendment prohibiting any state or federal permit to lease for new oil and gas drilling in or under the great lakes , one of the great treasures , 20 percent of the water in the world , the free fresh water which is so important to us . 
are we being allowed to debate and vote on this amendment which would inconvenience powerful oil and gas producers ? 
the answer to that is no . 
i urge my colleagues to reject this rule . 
i urge my colleagues to see to it that we teach the rules committee that their function is to facilitate debate , not to deny members the opportunity to discuss matters of importance on this floor . 
this is the people 's house , not the residents of a group of special interests , but it gives every appearance of that . 
it rather smells that way . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself 3 minutes . 
mr. chairman , we have a bad bill . 
it is represented as being something which is going to save money and increase energy supplies . 
the energy information agency says neither of these cases is true . 
it is not going to reduce energy prices , but rather will increase the cost of gasoline . 
let us look at what our country needs . 
it needs congress to pass a real energy bill , not a flawed bill that will hurt the environment , hurt consumers , and cost taxpayers a bundle of money . 
democrats have been trying to work with our republican colleagues to get balanced , sensible legislation , starting with a clean slate in a bipartisan fashion . 
we have been denied that opportunity . 
the republican leadership chose , instead , to push an outdated energy bill which had its origins in the secret cheney energy task force and was negotiated in secret conference meetings which excluded the democrats . 
the administration 's own energy information administration analyzed the old bill saying changes to production , consumption , imports , and prices are negligible . 
it even found , as i noted , that gasoline prices under the bill would increase more than if the bill were not enacted . 
while the bill will little help our energy independence , it is far from benign . 
despite our efforts to overturn the antienvironmental provisions of the bill , it weakens laws such as the safe drinking water act and the leaking underground storage tank program that protect the environment and public health . 
the bill also changes hydroelectric power policies by undercutting safeguards for dam relicensing . 
it gives power producers more and better rights than states , tribes , and other public entities . 
it jeopardizes not only fish , but the overall health of our river systems and the recreational activities that they sustain ; and it confers , unfairly , rights on people , while not taking the same care of the concern of the citizenry generally . 
the bill eliminates requirements for public participation and deference to the states in decisions about the siting of electric transmission lines and natural gas facilities . 
as far as consumers are concerned , it is hard to imagine a better case for increasing consumer protections than the debacle which took place in the west coast electricity markets in 2000 and 2001 . 
the federal energy regulatory commission has determined widespread fraud existed , and there are tapes to prove it ; yet this bill gives only cosmetic reforms in law and , in point of fact , repeals the public utility holding company act of 1935 , which protects consumers and investors . 
and it does nothing to assure refunds of unjust and unreasonable overcharges . 
while blackouts cost the consumers $ 80 billion , this bill holds a sensible reliability provision hostage to its more controversial provision and caps the necessary expenditure to set the job right . 
taxpayers will also be hit hard by this bill . 
we do not know the total cost , but last time it cost over $ 30 billion , four times the amount requested by the administration . 
this is a bad bill . 
i urge my colleagues to reject it . 
mr. chairman , i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from california ( mr. waxman ) xz4004250 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey ) xz4002530 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. solis ) xz4003840 . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield the balance of my time to the distinguished gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher ) xz4000430 . 
madam chairman , i yield myself 3 minutes . 
madam chairman , it is regrettable indeed that we function under such a constrained rule , but the amendment which i have been permitted to offer here contains real benefits for electricity consumers and includes many of the reforms that i and other of my colleagues have proposed in committee markups , on the house floor , and in conference during consideration of various energy bills . 
first , the amendment would prevent future enron-like debacles by providing the federal energy regulatory commission with broad authority to deter and punish fraudulent behavior that distorts electricity and natural gas markets . 
enron 's ingenuity demonstrates how difficult it is for regulators to foresee , punish , prevent , and correct every type of misconduct . 
a recent ferc report concluded , `` currently , the commission has few remedies to address misconduct by market participants. '' second , my amendment addresses an important real electricity concern , the need to ensure that the ferc has the authority to issue orders requiring refunds for all electricity overcharges . 
regrettably , that is not now the case . 
the skill and arts of enron and enron-like rascals will enable them to escape much of the refunds which they should make after the most active kind of wrong doing , as we saw in the western part of the united states . 
third , the amendment does not repeal the public utility holding company act of 1935 without which enron would certainly have purchased more utilities than it did , sunk its tentacles even more deeply into the electric industry , and skinned more consumers and innocent buyers of electricity . 
the amendment requires the sec to review a company 's existing exemptions under the act to make sure they do not assert false claim , as the commission belatedly determined enron had done . 
with due respect to the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 , i believe my amendment provides a far better alternative for consumers than the wholly inadequate provisions of h.r. 6 . 
h.r. 6 includes only limited cosmetic changes to current federal electricity law . 
it outlaws `` roundtrip trading '' and filing of false information , but offers no protection against schemes liken enron 's death star , get shorty , or richochet . 
moreover , h.r. 6 does not authorize ferc to grant full refunds to consumers who were skinned by inflated electricity prices , but rather allows refunds only from the date when the complaint is filed . 
finally , h.r. 6 repeals puhca , leaving consumers and investors even more vulnerable to deception by enron-type players who concoct `` special purpose entities '' to move money around while hiding behind complex , opaque corporate structures . 
i would note a recent standard & amp ; poor report states : `` utility investment in non-core businesses has been responsible for most of the credit deterioration in the utility industry. '' i urge my colleagues to adopt the amendment . 
madam chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher ) xz4000430 . 
madam chairman , i yield 2 1/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. eshoo ) xz4001240 . 
madam chairman , if my colleagues want a replication of enron and the abuses , the stealing , the dishonesty that hurt pensioners , retirees , shareholders , others in the industry , hundreds and hundreds of ratepayers and hurt the structure of the states in the western united states , then vote against this amendment . 
this amendment stops self-dealing . 
this amendment requires that there be repayment of money wrongfully taken . 
it allows ferc and the sec to provide the necessary steps that will stop enrons and others like enron from doing what enron did , which caused such desperate hurt to millions of americans in the western united states . 
my amendment does go further than anything else being considered . 
enron 's abuses went further than anyone expected , far beyond , and they shook the entire electric industry . 
but it also hurt consumers , states , and also retirees and pensioners and shareholders . 
this amendment will stop that abuse . 
i urge my colleagues to vote for it . 
madam chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
i am opposed to the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself 1 minute . 
mr. chairman , i know the amendment is offered with the best of good will . 
it is nonetheless a bad amendment which is going to cost this country jobs . 
i urge my colleagues to oppose it . 
the amendment appears to say that it would only require cafe to be fixed at 33 . 
in point of fact , it would be required , because of the language in the amendment , to properly go to 36 miles per gallon . 
if you like driving around in small cars , this will assure that that will be all that you will have . 
i will point out who opposes it : afl-cio , farm bureau , united auto workers , national automobile dealers , and hundreds of consumers who buy comfortable cars which are big enough so that they can take their family around . 
the amendment would purport to have the agency which would fix fuel economy standards to in fact consider both jobs , safety and other questions like that . 
in point of fact , there is no requirement . 
so those requirements , in fact , are not requirements but , rather , an illusion . 
i would urge my colleagues to vote against the amendment . 
it is opposed by people who want jobs , who are concerned about the economic welfare and well being of the country , and the auto workers . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the distinguished gentleman from michigan ( mr. kildee ) xz4002160 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from michigan ( ms. kilpatrick ) xz4002170 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. doyle ) xz4001140 . 
mr. chairman , i believe that i am entitled to close the debate ? 
mr. chairman , i yield the balance of my time to the distinguished gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak ) xz4003910 to close the debate . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
under the unanimous consent request , i assume , then , that i have offered it ; and i yield to the gentleman from the great state of texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 . 
mr. chairman , reclaiming my time and continuing my comments , i rejoice that the gentleman has accepted it . 
i commend him for having done so . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , my good republican colleagues and friends are seeing something that they made possible today . 
years ago , in 1995 , they passed the unfunded mandates reform act . 
they should recognize this . 
they said how this was going to stop the imposition of unfunded mandates upon communities and states . 
that is exactly what the amendment does . 
if they had been fair and given this a decent rule , then we would have been able to debate these in a proper fashion and they would not be complaining about surprise . 
but having said this , there are some 80 lawsuits that are going to be able to go forward . 
the judge had this to say about these kinds of lawsuits , and , by the way , they are in new york and new hampshire : `` innocent water providers and , ultimately , innocent water users should not be denied relief from the contamination of their water supply if the defendants breached a duty to avoid an unreasonable risk from their products. '' this bill is an immunity bath for mbte manufacturers and for the refineries . 
that is wrong . 
it should be possible for there to be responsibility where the polluters pay , and that is exactly what this amendment allows . 
it leaves ethyl alcohol and other renewables okay , but it removes mbte from the liability waiver . 
april 5 , 2005 . 
oppose the mtbe liability waiver dear members of the house energy and commerce committee : the undersigned organizations -- representing thousands of mayors , city council members , county officials , towns and townships , drinking water systems and public works departments -- reiterate our strong opposition to providing product liability immunity to the producers of mtbe . 
the liability waiver amounts to a massive unfunded mandate on local governments and citizens . 
mtbe producers , according to documents in recent litigation , put this contaminant into commerce knowing it could contaminate drinking water supplies . 
under the mtbe product liability waiver , these producers would be rendered unaccountable . 
thousands of water sources have been contaminated , and as mtbe spreads , more and more communities will be forced to shut down wells or undertake a costly cleanup program . 
here are some important facts to remember . 
1 . 
mtbe was never mandated , and congress is not obligated to provide the producers `` safe harbor. '' and , regardless , the producers put mtbe into gasoline well before the clean air act amendments of 1990 and with knowledge of its environmental dangers . 
2 . 
one estimate by experts puts the cleanup cost in excess of $ 29 billion . 
3 . 
the liability waiver would retroactively block hundreds of communities ' legitimate suits that have been filed already and could preempt hundreds more , leaving communities with a multi-billion dollar unfunded mandate from congress . 
4 . 
the leaking underground storage tank fund was not intended to address the overwhelming amount of contamination communities are experiencing . 
moreover , taxpayers should not pay for mtbe cleanup . 
please oppose the mtbe liability waiver . 
sincerely , mr. chairman , the language of this bill , which appropriates $ 310 million from the nuclear waste fund `` to carry out the purposes of the nuclear waste policy act of 1982 '' does not on its face present policy concerns . 
while the yucca mountain repository program faces funding problems , this is not the bill in which to address those issues and this appropriation more than meets the administration 's fy 2006 request . 
the language of the committee report , however , is an altogether different matter and strays across the line from appropriating into authorizing . 
it does so by directing the department of energy ( doe ) to undertake actions inconsistent with its authority under the nuclear waste policy act . 
specifically , the report directs doe to `` begin the movement of spent fuel to centralized interim storage at one or more doe sites within fiscal year 2006. '' now , it is elementary that report language does not constitute a statutory mandate . 
as the u.s. supreme court ruled in its 1993 opinion , lincoln v. vigil , `` it is a fundamental principle of appropriations law that where congress merely appropriates lump-sum amounts without statutory restriction , a clear inference may be drawn that it does not intend to impose legally funding restrictions , and indicia in committee reports and other legislative history as to how the funds should , or are expected to , be spent do not establish any legal requirements on the agency. '' nonetheless , report language that conflicts with an agency 's statutory responsibilities warrants a response . 
the committee report directs doe to do something the nuclear waste policy act does not permit -- to establish one or more centralized interim storage facilities for commercial spent fuel , to take title to `` some '' commercial spent fuel , and to consider altering the order in which utility fuel is scheduled to be removed from utility sites . 
what would adoption of this `` interim storage '' proposal mean ? 
first , it would mean that some state other than nevada , which congress ratified as the sole candidate for licensing a permanent repository , would `` win '' the lottery for hosting an interim storage facility that would open in 2006 . 
the report language helpfully notes that three doe sites in the states of idaho , south carolina , and washington , could be selected . 
it notes as well , however , that other federal sites , including closed military bases , could be picked . 
this would not be permitted under the nuclear waste policy act . 
second , the proposed interim facility would not be subject to licensing by the nrc . 
it is not clear that the national environmental policy act would even apply . 
if you think licensing a repository at yucca mountain will be a demanding process , as it should be , the uncertainties surrounding an unlicensed interim storage facility should give pause to potentially affected communities . 
third , since the proposal specifies no licensing process and no statutory criteria for site selection , it is likely that pure politics -- not seismic conditions , not storage capacity , not even security measures -- would guide doe in its selection of a fast track candidate to begin storing waste in fy 2006 . 
that should send a chill up the spine of any state with a federally-owned site , since the policy proposed in the report would not provide protections equal to the nuclear regulatory commission fourth , ratepayers should be alarmed by the committee report 's interim storage proposal . 
they have paid over $ 22 billion into the nuclear waste fund since 1983 for the purpose of permanent disposal -- not interim storage -- of commercial spent fuel . 
an interim storage facility could add to costs in the long run , increasing ratepayers ' total payments to the fund . 
fifth , utilities and the nuclear industry should be alarmed by this interim storage proposal . 
while a few lucky companies ' waste might get moved before yucca mountain opens , the vast majority are likely to be stuck holding their waste longer . 
interim storage is likely to divert doe 's funds and attention , just when the department needs to focus on submitting a license to the nrc and on getting yucca mountain up and running . 
i commend representatives spratt and hobson for their colloquy clarifying that the committee report 's `` guidance '' to doe interim storage does not obviate the need for statutory changes to authorize doe to pursue this misguided policy . 
yesterday , i sent doe secretary bodman a letter asking that and other questions , and i believe all members would be well served to consider the answers before considering such substantial modifications to current law . 
madam chairman , some folks will get a lot of mileage out of this bill , but it will not be the hard-working americans who have to pay more and more at the gas pump as a direct result of the policies of this bush administration . 
when the same collection of fossil fuel dinosaurs and tax loophole lobbyists come here and order congress to `` fill 'er up , '' with special favors , they seldom go away on `` empty. '' national security demands a balanced energy policy that encourages more new energy technology and renewable alternatives . 
but in this bill , security is sacrificed at the altar of whichever lobbyist had the biggest limousine . 
our families ' health depends on clean air and water , but this collection of tax breaks , loopholes , handouts and waivers ensures only continued healthy profits for some of the worst polluters in the world . 
and this bill is not just about more smoke in the air , it is about more smoke and mirrors . 
take , for example , the synthetic fuel provision that i tried unsuccessfully to strike in the committee on ways and means ; it is really about tax dodging through synthetic accounting . 
unscrupulous companies get what some estimate to be up to $ 4 billion a year by spraying starch on coal or pine tar on coal . 
this does not add to the energy capability of the coal . 
it does not cause the coal to burn in a less polluting manner . 
its sole purpose is to generate significant tax dodging . 
that is why enron was about to embark on this gimmick that so many companies have abused , and which this committee on ways and means refuses to end . 
this energy bill is not just about over-reliance on fossil fuels . 
it is about fossilized ideals . 
it is about a lost opportunity for america to be the world 's leader in energy technology . 
with our security at stake , when so much of the world 's oil is located in areas as inflammable above ground as the fuel they hold underground , with our families ' health dependent on not letting the quality of our air and our water deteriorate even further than it has under this administration , this energy bill is the latest example of spending today , while the future will be billed in dollars , safety and health . 
that bill will be due and paid by our children and our grandchildren , like my new little ella . 
mr. chairman , there is a simple test this energy bill should pass . 
is big oil going to see their largess before the american people see relief at the pump ? 
the answer 's yes , and that 's exactly what 's wrong with this legislation . 
it is n't a bill written for the benefit of the american people , but by high-priced lobbyists for the benefit of their high-priced clients . 
the energy department says this bill does n't lower gas prices . 
in fact , it could actually raise gas prices by 3 to 5 cents per gallon according to the department 's independent budget analysis . 
even president bush said this bill subsidizes the oil and gas companies and that he would have written it differently . 
the energy bill is supposed to provide this nation with a comprehensive energy policy , but what 's written here is an $ 8 billion give-away to big oil . 
mr. chairman , yesterday the president said , `` i wish i could simply wave a magic wand and lower gas prices tomorrow. '' well , mr. president , i wish that i could wave a magic wand and get your administration and this congress out of the pockets of big oil companies . 
then maybe we could begin the people 's work . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from new york for yielding me this time and i rise in strong support of the bishop-markey substitute . 
this amendment contains a number of provisions designed to reduce dependence on nonrenewable energy sources . 
it is ridiculous that h.r. 6 really offers no relief to the soaring prices of gasoline . 
i think that is what our constituents really want to see . 
the administration 's own energy information administration analyzed last year 's h.r. 6 and said , changes to production , consumption , imports and prices in it are negligible . 
it even found that gasoline prices under the bill would actually increase more than if a bill was not enacted . 
the bishop-markey amendment offers clear measures to lower the price of gas . 
we should not be filling the strategic petroleum reserve while oil prices are so high . 
we should urge opec to increase oil production . 
we should instruct the ftc to protect the american people from price gouging at the gas pump . 
these are reasonable steps . 
this is what this substitute does . 
and it will provide reasonable relief from high gas prices . 
i can not support h.r. 6 as it is written today despite my great affection for our chairman , who was more than fair when we had the markup in the committee on energy and commerce ; but this bishop-markey amendment would provide critical improvements to it . 
support this amendment today . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume , and i rise to offer a perfecting amendment to a good grant proposal offered in section 1512 . 
under h.r. 6 , the secretary of energy may provide grants to merchant producers of cellulosic biomass ethanol and waste-derived ethanol . 
my amendment would simply allow producers of other renewable fuels approved by the department of energy to also apply for these grants . 
this amendment simply expands the types of renewable fuels eligible for funding under the grant program in h.r. 6 . 
there is no change in cost to the grant program or h.r. 6 under my amendment . 
currently , there is no available technology that can convert much of the urban waste into ethanol ; yet there is at least one such technology that can convert urban waste into components for another doe-recognized alternative fuel called p-series fuels . 
p-series is a family of renewable nonpetroleum liquid fuels that can substitute for gasoline . 
p-series fuels were officially designated as an alternative fuel by the u.s. department of energy in 1999 . 
forty-five percent of p-series fuels are made from ethanol ; the rest is made up of mthf , natural gas liquids and butane . 
both the ethanol and mthr are derived from renewable domestic feedstocks , such as corn , wastepaper , cellulosic biomass , agricultural waste , and wood waste from construction . 
since p-series fuels are not derived from petroleum , the doe concluded that p-series fuels would efficiently and effectively help replace petroleum imports . 
doe also found p-series to have environmental benefits because of the reduction in hydrocarbon and co emissions , toxics , and greenhouse gases . 
p-series fuel addresses three problems : the need for nonpetroleum energy sources , solid waste management , and affordability . 
a pilot plan for this technology is operating in south glens falls , new york . 
it was constructed with funds invested by the u.s. department of energy . 
associated technology was developed at the u.s. department of energy 's pacific northwest national laboratory . 
this conversion process is well regarded and is deserving of the same level of assistance that are intended for ethanol conversion technologies . 
it won the president 's green chemistry challenge , a competition sponsored by the u.s. epa 's office of pollution prevention and toxics . 
the u.s. government spent considerable time and effort to develop this technology . 
expanding the renewable fuels eligible under the grant program will be a win for all . 
mr. chairman , i know of no opposition to this amendment . 
i urge my colleagues to approve this simple amendment to h.r. 6 . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
let me say i am disappointed that the majority does not agree that we ought to really look at renewable fuels . 
this , to me , is part of the reason why the bill is so problematic . 
i do not believe there is a commitment on the majority side to look at renewable fuels . 
this does not strike anything . 
this does not add any more money . 
this just allows companies to apply for these grants from the secretary of energy . 
if the secretary of energy feels it is not worthy or it is one company , they can reject it . 
this does not add anything . 
this just would show that we are serious in looking at other renewable fuels . 
why would we want to restrict the amount of the different kinds of renewable fuels that we can look at ? 
this is technology into the future . 
we should be expanding these things . 
here we are just saying , open it up and let other groups apply . 
they can be rejected if it is not meritorious . 
we believe p-series fuels are very important and can help us in the future to look at alternative sources of energy other than gasoline . 
i am deeply disappointed , and i think this again shows the problems with the underlying bill . 
the majority is not really serious in my opinion , with all due respect , in trying to find alternative ways that americans can get their energy from other than gasoline . 
that is why this bill is a big sock to the oil-producing companies and to the special interest industries , because whenever we want to expand it to help the american people , we are told , no , no , it is no good . 
again , this does not add any money . 
this just says let other people apply . 
if a secretary of energy deems these applications are not good , they can reject them . 
i can see no reason why there is opposition . 
i am very disappointed , and i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , serious problems deserve respectful consideration . 
the intense polarization of the energy debate has been compounded by the leadership 's insistence on repeatedly forcing congress to consider essentially the same bill . 
congress had a great opportunity to produce a balanced energy policy that is diversified , reduces our dependence on oil and invests in alternative energy , but our leadership chose to essentially recycle an old bill that favors special interests over consumers . 
this is not the way to make policy . 
american energy policy is at the crossroads and our national security is being compromised daily by our dependence on foreign energy supplies . 
today , oil is at over $ 50 per barrel and we still have n't passed reliability standards to address the electricity blackout that assaulted the northeast and midwest in 2003 . 
blackouts cost consumers $ 80 billion , and yet this bill caps the necessary spending to do an acceptable job of providing reliability . 
partisan politics have paralyzed this congress into deadlock and our nation 's energy has suffered the consequences . 
although i appreciate chairman barton 's willingness to extend hearings on energy this year prior to the 109th congress 's consideration of the energy policy act , i was very disappointed that a letter that 14 of my colleagues and i sent to chairman barton at the beginning of february requesting that our committee invite the national commission on energy policy to testify went unanswered . 
in february , secretary bodman testified of his familiarity with the ncep 's report and of his willingness to work with congress to produce a bill in a bipartisan fashion . 
if the ncep was able to bridge the differences between republicans and democrats , industry and labor , perhaps we could have too . 
and yet , here we are again , with a bill strikingly similar to the one we considered over two years ago . 
there is a laundry list of problems in this bill . 
there is nothing in this bill that reduces our consumption of oil or reduces the price of oil . 
the energy information agency has stated in a 2004 report that under policies proposed by the energy policy act , by 2025 , u.s. consumption is projected to increase to 28.3 million barrels per day and our country would increase its imports of foreign oil by 85 percent . 
it even found that gasoline prices under the bill would increase more than if the bill was not enacted . 
the bill 's provision protecting manufacturers of mtbe from liability for contaminating water supplies means that taxpayers will bear billions of dollars in cleanup costs , while at the same time paying mtbe manufacturers $ 2 billion in subsidies . 
in a much anticipated ruling yesterday in the southern district of new york , a federal judge who had consolidated over 80 mtbe lawsuits brought by local governments and state attorney generals , ruled that all of the cases can proceed against the oil industry . 
including the mtbe liability waiver in the bill would essentially undermine this ruling , while at the same time cutting off the most effective tool that states and local governments have utilized to clean up their drinking water . 
new york , which banned mtbe on january 1 , 2004 , will long be dealing with the repercussions of mtbe contamination . 
the new york state department of environmental conservation says there are about 10 , 000 mtbe spills throughout the state . 
the average cost per clean up is about $ 1 million which translates to a cost of about $ 10 billion statewide . 
in and around jamaica , queens , where more than a million nyc residents and businesses rely on groundwater instead of surface water from the upstate reservoirs , mtbe has contaminated much of the groundwater supply in the aquifer . 
gasoline refiners choose less expensive mtbe from among a number of oxygenate options and knew at the time of the contamination risk that mtbe posed to groundwater . 
the refiners should therefore pay for mtbe remediation efforts . 
perhaps most insulting to the taxpayers is the billions to be spent to prop up the ailing nuclear power industry . 
i have long supported shutting down indian point nuclear power plant because of safety concerns for new yorkers . 
yet , the republicans in congress have ignored these safety issues and instead provided tax dollars to subsidize building new power plants . 
while i am not opposed to nuclear power , these tax dollars would be better used to insulate homes and assist renewable energy production methods in being brought to market . 
the fact of the matter is that this bill has some bad provisions that are simply anticonsumer and anti-environment . 
h.r. 6 weakens laws such as the safe drinking water act and the leaking underground storage tank program that protect the environment and the public health . 
this bill will allow oil drilling in the alaska national wildlife refuge , even though the oil wo n't be available for a decade and even then at levels that would not significantly affect oil prices or imports . 
i am proud that two of my amendments were accepted into the energy policy act . 
the first , which i introduced during the house energy and commerce committee consideration of h.r. 6 , expresses the sense of congress that energy cooperation between the united states of america and israel is mutually beneficial , acknowledges the cooperative agreement between the u.s. and israel and states the department of energy should report on past and future cooperative energy projects between the u.s. and israel . 
my second amendment expanded opportunities for producers of renewable fuels , such as p-series fuels , to get grant funding . 
currently , there is no available technology that can convert much of the urban biomass waste into ethanol . 
yet there is at least one such technology that can convert urban biomass waste into components for another doe recognized alternative fuel , called p-series fuels . 
since p-series fuels are not derived from petroleum , the doe concluded that p-series fuels would effectively help replace petroleum imports . 
doe also found p-series to have environmental benefits because of the reductions in hydrocarbon and co emissions , toxics , and greenhouse gases . 
by virtue of my amendment , producers of alternative fuels like p-series fuels will be able to responsibly address three problems : the need for non-petroleum energy sources , solid waste management , and affordability . 
this is good energy policy . 
our energy policy is intricately tied to our national security and our economic well-being . 
as the co-chair of the congressional oil and national security caucus , i know we need to ensure that our energy policy is diversified , reduce our dependence on oil , and create skilled jobs while reducing energy costs . 
we must ensure that we create policies that will protect the environment and our consumers . 
unfortunately , this simply can not be achieved under this energy policy act , and so i must vote against it . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
i rise in opposition to this rule . 
the state of california sends $ 50 billion more to the federal government while getting nothing in return for that $ 50 billion . 
with this bill , californians are being asked to sacrifice even more while getting nothing in return . 
here are some examples : according to the department of energy , the bill will raise gasoline prices by 8 cents a gallon . 
i think that that is an outrage . 
the bill 's mtbe liability waiver will let refiners off the hook for cleaning up drinking water that has been contaminated by their product . 
local governments are going to have to pay the entire cost . 
and the cbo has said this is an unfunded mandate . 
the bill will undermine the ability of states to ensure that liquefied natural gas terminals are sited and operate safely . 
the bill will undermine states ' appeals rights under the coastal zone management act . 
the bill paves the way for building energy facilities on the outer continental shelf , including areas subject to gas and oil drilling . 
in listening to state leaders about this bill , i could not find anyone , from the governor on down , who has said that this is a wonderful bill and it should be supported and passed . 
instead , i have heard many concerns , from the lieutenant governor , from members of the governor 's cabinet , the attorney general , the coastal commission , the public utilities commission , local governments , and water utilities . 
mr. speaker , i will include in the record a packet of letters from the coastal commission , the california puc , the lieutenant governor , and the california ocean protection council . 
under this rule , i do not think we even have the opportunity to debate and vote on the most important amendments dealing with them . 
i ask my colleagues , particularly my california colleagues , to join me in voting against the rule and the underlying bill . 
the letters previously referred to are as follows : house of representatives , washington , dc , april 19 , 2005 . 
dear governor schwarzenegger , on april 13th , our committees ( the house committee on energy and commerce and the house committee on resources ) completed work on elements of a comprehensive energy bill that will come before the full house of representatives as soon as april 20th . 
after participating in the debate and reviewing the products that emerged from our respective committees , we foresee serious dangers for the state of california if this legislation is enacted . 
while the delegation has received your letter supporting the removal of the participant funding section from the electricity title of the bill , we have not heard from you about other provisions that will more directly and immediately affect california . 
as we and other members of the delegation determine how to best represent the interests of our state , we believe it 's important to understand your views on some of the key provisions before us as well as your overall position on the legislation . 
most of the elements of the legislation are not new . 
they were part of the conference report on h.r. 6 , which was considered by the house and senate in 2003 . 
among the few new provisions are those that would further disadvantage our state . 
we 've described below some of the provisions that we consider most troubling for california . 
the bill will hand over exclusive jurisdiction for the siting of liquefied natural gas ( lng ) facilities to the federal energy regulatory commission ( ferc ) , preventing the states from having a role in approving the location of lng terminals and the conditions under which these terminals must operate . 
in addition , states will have to seek ferc permission before conducting safety inspections , and they will be barred from taking any independent enforcement action against lng terminal operators for safety violations . 
finally , for the next six years , lng terminal operators will be allowed to withhold underutilized capacity from other lng suppliers . 
in other words , lng terminal operators can legally exercise market power to drive up the cost of natural gas . 
when the el paso corporation and its independent affiliates allegedly conspired to withhold natural gas pipeline capacity in order to inflate the costs of natural gas and electricity in california in 2000 and 2001 , the state sought relief for these reasons , the provision is unanimously opposed by the california public utilities commission , which , as you know , is fighting ferc in the courts for jurisdiction over an lng terminal in the heart of the port of long beach . 
this provision is also opposed by the california ocean protection council , which includes two members of your cabinet , and the california coastal commission . 
erosion of states ' rights under the coastal zone management act ( czma ) ( provisions from h.r. 6 ) the bill weakens california 's rights under the coastal zone management act to object to a ferc-approved coastal pipeline or energy facility project when the project is inconsistent with the state 's federally-approved coastal management program . 
currently when there is a disagreement about a project , the secretary of commerce , through an administrative appeals process , determines whether and under what conditions the project can go forward . 
states can present new evidence supporting their arguments to the secretary . 
under this bill , states will not be allowed to present new evidence to the secretary , and the secretary will not be allowed to seek out evidence on his or her own . 
the secretary will only be allowed to rely on the record compiled by ferc . 
furthermore , the bill imposes an expedited timeline for appeals , which may not allow a full review of the facts . 
the california coastal commission and the california ocean protection council oppose this provision . 
energy related facilities on the outer continental shelf ( ocs ) ( provisions from h.r. 6 ) the bill will give the department of interior permitting authority for `` alternative '' energy projects , such as wind projects , situated on the outer continental shelf ( ocs ) . 
it also grants the department of interior authority to permit other types of energy facilities , including facilities to `` support the exploration , development , production , transportation , or storage of oil , natural gas , or other minerals. '' these facilities could be permitted within coastal areas currently subject to congressional moratoria on oil and gas leasing . 
( again , both the california coastal commission and the california ocean protection council have indicated that they oppose this provision. ) ethanol mandate ( provision from h.r. 6 ) the clean air act 's two percent oxygenate requirement forces refiners selling gasoline in california to blend more ethanol into their fuel than is needed for air quality purposes . 
instead of improving air quality , the unnecessary use of ethanol is increasing pollution in parts of the state , according to a preliminary report from the california air resources board . 
the oxygenate requirement is also adding to the cost of fuel . 
last year , you asked the u.s. epa to waive the oxygenate requirement , and last week , 50 members of the california congressional delegation reiterated support for your request in a letter to acting epa administrator stephen l. johnson . 
under the energy bill coming before the house , however , california refiners will have to blend even more ethanol into their gasoline or pay ( in the form of credit purchases ) not to use it . 
two years ago , a department of energy analysis of this provision indicated that it could add more than 8 cents to the cost of a gallon of gasoline . 
in a time of skyrocketing gas prices , this new mandate amounts to hidden tax on california motorists , which will subsidize a single industry located largely in the midwest . 
while some have argued that the ethanol mandate will be a boon to california agriculture , we see no evidence to support this argument . 
according to the u.s. energy information administration ( eia ) , the ethanol mandate will greatly expand production of corn-based ethanol , but only 0.2 % of the nation 's corn is produced in california . 
more important , eia projects that the ethanol mandate will result in no increase in the production of cellulosic ethanol ( ethanol made from agricultural and forestry residues and other resources ) , which is the primary type of ethanol that can be produced in california . 
mtbe liability waiver and transition fund ( provisions from h.r. 6 ) the bill provides liability protection for the producers of the gasoline additive mtbe , hampering the efforts of local governments , water utilities , and others to hold producers and oil companies responsible for the costs of cleaning drinking water supplies that have been contaminated by mtbe . 
in california , south lake tahoe and santa monica have been able to reach settlements with the industry for the cleanup of their drinking water after successfully arguing that the industry sold a defective product . 
if the liability protection in the bill is enacted , then mtbe will be deemed a safe product and the industry will be relieved from virtually any obligation to pay cleanup costs . 
in june 2003 , fourteen state attorneys general wrote in opposition to this this bill includes language which will require the secretary of energy to designate `` refinery revitalization zones '' in areas that have experienced mass layoffs or contain an idle refinery and have an unemployment rate that exceeds the national average by 10 percent . 
in areas that meet these criteria , the secretary of energy is given authority to site a new refinery within six months of receiving a petition for approval . 
the criteria outlined in the language would result in much of california being designated a `` refinery revitalization zone , '' from imperial to east los angeles and north of san jose . 
in fact , more than half of california 's 53 congressional districts would be subject to these provisions . 
this language erodes the state , air board and communities permitting and enforcement authority for these refineries by granting sweeping new authority to the department of energy . 
the department is empowered to coordinate and set binding deadlines for all federal authorizations and environmental reviews , including those currently conducted by air quality management districts . 
the department of energy , however , is not trained and experienced in issuing air permits and is not familiar with the various rules implemented by local agencies as part of the state implementation plan ( sip ) required by the clean air act . 
for these reasons , the south coast air quality management district has expressed serious reservations about this provision . 
an amendment added to the bill in the energy and commerce committee will preempt california 's new efficiency standards for ceiling fans , pending the implementation of a federal standard . 
the u.s. department of energy has been notoriously slow in propounding efficiency standards , falling years behind statutory deadlines for setting or updating efficiency standards for other appliances , such as air conditioners . 
preempting california and forcing it to wait indefinitely for a federal standard runs completely against the state 's effort to reduce electricity demand . 
indeed , the ceiling fan standard is part of a california energy commission demand reduction package that will reduce peak power demand by 1 , 000 megawatts within 10 years , saving consumers $ 75 a year in energy costs and conserving as much power as can be generated by three large power plants . 
hydroelectric dam relicensing ( provisions from h.r. 6 ) the bill restructures the hydroelectric relicensing process to give special preference to dam operators . 
other parties with legitimate interests in relicensing , including states , tribes , conservationists , farmers , and fishermen , would not be afforded the same opportunities . 
under current law , federal resource agencies can impose conditions on a hydroelectric license for the protection of natural resources and wildlife . 
under the bill a dam operator , and only a dam operator , will be entitled to a trial-type hearing before a resource agency to dispute the evidence that the agency uses to justify placing conditions on a license . 
the bill also requires resource agencies to accept alternative license conditions proposed by a dam operator . 
otherwise , the agencies must meet nearly impossible standards to justify a decision to deny the alternative . 
river resources belong to more than dam operators . 
with licenses that last for up to 50 years , relicensing is one of the few chances to make sure that resources are adequately protected for all stakeholders . 
in california , there are more than 300 federally-regulated hydroelectric dams ; over 200 will undergo relicensing in the next 10 to 15 years . 
denying all stakeholders equal footing in the process is fundamentally unfair and is a recipe for protracted litigation . 
we believe there are many other aspects of the legislation which will have a negative impact on our state , but these provisions clearly run contrary to the interests of california , and we believe they will undermine the policies and positions the state is pursuing under your administration . 
before the delegation votes on this legislation , members should have the benefit of your views on these provisions and the bill as a whole . 
this legislation is too important a matter for the nation 's largest state to be silent on . 
although time is short , the issues we 've outlined have been in the public domain for the past several months , going back to november 2003 in most cases . 
therefore , we ask for your input before the house votes on this legislation this week . 
thank you for timely consideration of this important request . 
sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; anna g. eshoo , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; committee on energy and commerce. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; henry a. waxman , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; committee on energy and commerce. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; lois capps , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; committee on energy and commerce. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; grace f. napolitano , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; committee on resources. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; george miller , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; committee on resources. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; hilda l. solis , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; committee on energy and commerce. & lt ; /em & gt ; protection council , sacramento , ca , april 4 , 2005 . 
dear representatives waxman , eshoo , capps and solis : thank you for your march 15 , 2005 letter to the california ocean protection council regarding the pending national energy bill and your concerns about potential impact of this legislation on ocean and coastal protection . 
the california ocean protection act is intended to help california coordinate and act on ocean and coastal issues of statewide and national significance . 
the membership of the council includes the secretary of the resources agency , who serves as chairman , the secretary of the california environmental protection agency ( cal/epa ) , and the chair of the state lands commission , who is currently the lieutenant governor . 
one state senator and one assemblymember also are appointed to serve as non-voting members of the council . 
the council is committed to maintaining california as a leader in ocean and coastal management . 
the council stands ready to fully implement the california ocean protection act and governor schwarzenegger 's ocean action plan . 
at our first meeting on march 21 the council discussed the need to maintain strong ocean and coastal protection measures . 
as a council we did not suggest a position on the energy bill , but reached consensus on the need to re-affirm california 's position on the following ocean and coastal protection issues : congressional oil and gas moratorium . 
the council opposes any effort to lift the congressional moratorium on offshore oil and gas leasing activities that has been protecting our shores since 1982 . 
coastal zone management act . 
the council opposes efforts to reduce the ocean and coastal protections provided by the coastal zone management act . 
liquefied natural gas facility siting . 
the council objects to efforts to reduce or eliminate a state 's role in the siting of liquefied natural gas facilities . 
we appreciate the opportunity to provide input on these critical issues facing california and other coastal states . 
please contact brian maird , assistant secretary for ocean and coastal policy , california resources agency if you have additional questions , or would like to further engage california in efforts to protect and manage ocean and coastal resources . 
he can be reached at ( 916 ) 657-0198 or via e-mail at brian @ resources.ca.gov . 
sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; mike chrisman , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; chairman , california ocean protection council , secretary for resources. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; cruz bustamante , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; california lieutenant governor. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; alan lloyd , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; secretary for california epa. & lt ; /em & gt ; march 23 , 2005 . 
dear congresswoman eshoo : as chair of the california state lands commission and a member of the newly-created california ocean protection council , i am writing to express my strong opposition to the energy legislation currently pending in congress . 
california is world-renowned for its 1 , 100 miles of breathtaking coastline . 
our ocean supports an abundance of marine life that is critical to the health of the world 's ecosystem and our state 's economy . 
a healthy ocean is inseparable from california 's heritage and way of life . 
the proposed energy legislation is a threat to our state 's environmental autonomy and coastal stewardship . 
protecting our coast means protecting a vital asset of california 's economy , as it provides more than $ 450 billion and hundreds of thousands of jobs to our state . 
the house energy and commerce committee is currently reviewing substantial changes in federal energy policy , including the rewriting the outer continental shelf lands act to grant the federal administration sweeping new authority over california 's coastal management and role in planning for coastal development . 
these changes would give the secretary of the interior new authority over energy-related leases , easements and right-of-way issues without any role for the affected state . 
this invasion of states ' rights would eliminate california 's ability to adequately protect our coast . 
another concern to californians is the federal government 's effort to strip the state of the ability to determine the siting of liquefied natural gas ( lng ) terminals . 
the state should be able to continue to play a meaningful role in determining the appropriate location of any gas terminal within the state 's boundaries . 
finally , any proposal that would give way to the lifting of the moratorium on offshore oil drilling along our coast is abhorrent to the vast majority of california 's voters and its public officials . 
the moratorium was put in place in 1990 by then-president george h.w . 
bush . 
californians continue to overwhelmingly support making the moratorium permanent . 
on march 21 , the other members of the ocean council joined me in expressing opposition to this `` so-called '' energy bill as the council 's first official act . 
today , i ask that you let the voice of californians prevail in any decisions being made about the future of our coast . 
with kindest regards , california coastal commission , san francisco , ca , march 23 , 2004 . 
dear representatives barton and dingell : on behalf of the california coastal commission ( the commission ) , i write to express our strong objection to provisions in the energy bill that would compromise the outer continental shelf ( ocs ) moratorium on oil drilling , seriously weaken the coastal zone management act ( czma ) protection of states rights , and eviscerate california 's role in siting new liquefied natural gas ( lng ) terminals . 
relative to the ocs moratorium , the legislation calls for a study that would open the door to carrying out an exploratory inventory of natural gas reserves within moratoria areas off the california coast . 
such an inventory would seriously undermining the longstanding bipartisan legislative moratorium on new mineral leasing activity on submerged lands of the ocs that has been included the commission also objects to proposed amendments to the czma . 
the proposed legislation would severely undercut the ability of coastal states to exercise their right to protect coastal resources pursuant to the federal consistency review provisions of the czma that have been law for more than thirty years . 
it would eliminate meaningful state participation in the appeal to the secretary of commerce of consistency decisions relative to ocs oil drilling and other federal activities by imposing unreasonable and unworkable time limitations for the processing of the appeal . 
the time limits set forth in the legislation are totally inadequate to enable the secretary of commerce to develop a complete record for the appeal and to review all the materials finally , the commission opposes the legislation 's provisions to trump state 's rights by giving the federal energy regulatory commission ( ferc ) authority over the siting of lng terminals . 
the commission objects to any amendments to the natural gas act and natural gas policy act that would expand ferc 's authority to preempt state regulations , condemn property for siting and construction of natural gas pipelines , and establish schedules and develop the exclusive record for administrative review of all state and federal decisions under federal law . 
the energy legislation 's provisions are directly contrary to california 's strong interest in safeguarding its precious coastal resources from offshore oil and gas drilling-related activities . 
if you or your staff has questions , please contact peter douglas , executive director , at ( 415 ) 904-5201 . 
sincerely , meg caldwell , public utilities commission , san francisco , ca , april 11 , 2005 . 
dear representative eshoo : the california public utilities commission ( cpuc ) strongly opposes the liquefied natural gas ( lng ) provisions in section 320 of title iii of the energy policy act of 2005 ( epact ) , and urges you to vote in favor of any proposed amendment to strike section 320 from title iii during markup , which we understand will take place on tuesday , april 12 , 2005 . 
section 320 would give the federal energy regulatory commission ( ferc ) exclusive jurisdiction over proposed liquefied natural gas ( lng ) facilities . 
this disproportionate control in the hands of ferc could have very serious consequences for california , due to ferc 's lack of understanding of local conditions , such as seismic issues , and refusal to have hearings to consider the cpuc agrees that lng terminals are necessary . 
it is not a question for us should there be lng terminals on the west coast , including california . 
the real issue is how to make sure they are safely located , and what safeguards would be sufficient to mitigate the risks , especially for sites in densely populated areas . 
the cpuc is aware of at least seven different lng proposals to serve southern california . 
whether the market would support more than two or three of them has been questioned by many experts . 
similarly , of the 56 proposed lng import terminals along the coast of north america , most of them will never be built due to market conditions . 
the point is that even without the lng provisions in this bill , there will be new lng terminals to meet our needs . 
the lng provisions in the proposed epact , if enacted , would severely undermine the careful evaluation of the safety issues that is necessary , particularly in densely populated areas , by depriving the states of decisionmaking authority , and by allowing the ferc to expedite the processes an control the administrative records . 
in addition , in sharp contrast to europe and japan , the lng provisions would insulate the lng terminal operators from any regulatory safeguards against their exercise of market power at least through january 1 , 2011 . 
as a result of these risks can be prevented or minimized if a more balanced approach , such as concurrent jurisdiction , were utilized . 
in that way , the states could apply their expertise , not to block lng terminals , but to ensure that they are safely sited and some regulatory check could exist to protect the consumers . 
the consequences of these risks , if there were an accident , earthquake or terrorist attack at one of the california lng terminals , would be to the nearby communities . 
the state of california should have decisionmaking authority and should not be made helpless and unable to protect the health and safety of our citizens . 
similarly , if there were a new energy crisis caused by lng terminal operators exercising market power , california utilities and their ratepayers would be the victims . 
the lng provisions should be stricken from title iii , so that the cpuc and other states can help prevent such a crisis from occurring . 
this concurrent jurisdiction approach worked in the 1970s when the cpuc and the ferc both certificated proposed lng facilities at point conception , instead of going forward with the initial proposal approved by the ferc at the city of oxnard . 
although the cpuc has been blamed for defending our jurisdiction over lng terminals in california in the current litigation between the ferc and cpuc in the ninth circuit , the cpuc tried to resolve the dispute and work cooperatively with the ferc at the outset . 
it was the ferc , who resisted our efforts and chose to make this a test case for the courts . 
it was the ferc , who rejected the cpuc 's request for a hearing in that proceeding even though the proposed lng facilities at the port of long beach would be in a densely populated area and built on landfill with 27 active for these reasons , we urge you to oppose section 320 and vote in favor of striking the lng provisions from the proposed epact . 
we urge you 'to consider a more balanced approach , such as concurrent jurisdiction , which would combine the expertise of federal and state agencies , and result in real cooperation . 
sincerely , michael r. peevey , madam chairman , i want to speak to one aspect of this very important consumer protection amendment , and that is what the amendment is : it protects consumers . 
the issue i want to talk about is refund authority . 
can there be any doubt today that western consumers were gouged as a result of energy market manipulation in 2000 and 2001 ? 
can there be any doubt that refunds are owed ? 
so when a member rises on the floor and talks about retroactive and it is not fair to have something retroactive , we have to have the arm of the law reach back so consumers are refunded the dollars that they were ripped off . 
madam chairman , 5 years after the crisis in california , no refunds have been ordered because for 5 years the federal energy regulatory commission has insisted it does not have the authority to order the retroactive refunds that will fully compensate consumers . 
ferc knows the evidence , and here it is : one , enron memos reveal that the energy trading company implemented elaborate market manipulation strategies to drive up prices . 
the enron memos gave these ploys names like fat boy , death star , and get shorty . 
number two , audio tapes of enron energy traders surfaced that confirmed the existence of secret deals with power producers that deliberately drove up prices by ordering power plants shut down . 
number three , transcripts of reliant energy traders from 2000 revealed that reliant power plant operators deliberately kept power offline in order to increase energy prices at the height of the crisis . 
four , on march 3 , 2003 , a coalition of california governmental entities and public utilities presented the ferc with more than 1 , 000 pages of evidence documenting a `` pervasive pattern of market manipulation that resulted in disastrous effects on prices and reliability. '' and in march 2003 , the ferc confirmed that significant power manipulation had taken place in the west . 
this amendment gives the ferc broad authority to order retroactive refunds for market-based rates that are not just and reasonable . 
for california , billions are at stake . 
i urge a vote for this amendment . 
last fall governor schwarzenegger said , `` californians deserve refunds to fairly compensate them for the excessively high prices they paid during the energy crisis . '' mr. chairman , in a cautionary letter to the president last month , a group of defense experts including conservatives robert mcfarlane , frank gaffney , and boyden gray said the following : `` with only 2 percent of the world 's oil reserves but 25 percent of current world consumption , the united states can not eliminate its need for imports through increased domestic production alone. '' our dependence on foreign oil is putting our country in a perilous situation . 
i urge my colleagues to support this amendment because it will move us away from that perilous addiction to foreign oil and increase efficiency where we use the most oil , and that is the automobile industry . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding to me this time . 
mr. chairman , i rise to support the capps amendment . 
and it really is a mystery to me why we are even where we are right now . 
i think that , collectively , the house of representatives should remember that this very provision took down the entire energy bill in the last congress . 
that is how important this provision is . 
now we have this debate about whether polluters should pay . 
i do not care what district anyone represents in this country . 
no constituent is going to stand up and say , put the tax burden on us and allow the industry to get away with it . 
that is what this amendment is about . 
that is why we should all vote for the capps amendment . 
the base bill contains a provision that creates a safe harbor . 
what does that mean ? 
it lets the industry off the hook . 
it relieves the industry of any obligation to pay even a portion of the estimated $ 29 billion of cost of cleaning up drinking water that has been contaminated by this product . 
we know the product has contaminated groundwater . 
now we are sending the bill to local governments . 
the national association of counties , the national league of cities , attorneys general from across the united states have weighed in . 
this is not just simply a matter of who pays . 
it is also a matter of public health . 
i agree with my colleague , the gentleman from new hampshire ( mr. bass ) xz4000190 . 
of course it is a matter of public health . 
why do we need a task force to try and figure this out ? 
let us make the bill right . 
let us not stand on the wrong leg and try and defend something that is indefensible . 
this is an unfunded mandate . 
the cbo has weighed in and said that . 
the congress has responded to unfunded mandates by having rule xviii in the house rules . 
so i ask my colleagues on a bipartisan basis , let us do the right thing . 
let us pass the capps amendment . 
mr. chairman , the base bill contains a provision that creates a `` safe harbor '' preventing defective product claims against the producers of gasoline that contains mtbe . 
what this `` safe harbor '' does is relieve industry of any obligation to pay even a portion of the estimated $ 29 billion cost of cleaning up drinking water that 's been contaminated by its product . 
instead , the burden of mtbe clean up will fall entirely on states and localities . 
it 's an unfunded mandate and a tax on the american people . 
in california , successful lawsuits have led to substantial settlements with oil companies , and these settlements have enabled some communities to begin cleaning up their drinking water supplies . 
now , because communities are winning these suits , industry wants congress to let it off the hook . 
but this is n't simply a matter of who pays ; it 's also a matter of public health . 
mtbe is a potential carcinogen . 
it 's been detected in groundwater in all 50 states . 
when mtbe is in drinking water , we need to clean it up . 
in response to the public health threat , 42 states have established action levels , cleanup levels , or drinking water standards for mtbe ; 19 states have imposed full or partial bans on mtbe in gasoline . 
in justifying the `` safe harbor , '' some will claim that congress established a mandate to use mtbe when it passed the clean air act 's 2 percent oxygenate requirement in the early 1990s . 
that 's not true . 
first , the industry did n't have to use mtbe to meet the oxygenate requirement ; it had alternatives such as ethanol and other petroleum-based products . 
second , the industry lobbied congress to ensure that mtbe could be used to meet the oxygenate requirement . 
third , at the time congress was debating the oxygenate requirement , some producers already knew mtbe was likely to seep into groundwater at faster rates and persist at greater levels than other gasoline components . 
in fact , in the south lake tahoe lawsuit , arco admitted that it withheld information about groundwater contamination from congress . 
mr. chairman , we 're not talking about clean hands here . 
there 's a reason the refiners and the mtbe producers are losing in court ; there 's a reason they 're settling claims . 
they 're responsible for the mess . 
why are we creating a safe harbor for them ? 
nobody outside of the industry thinks this provision is a good idea . 
in 2003 , 14 attorneys general , including the attorneys general of california , new york , colorado , connecticut , illinois , maryland , massachusetts , minnesota , new hampshire , new mexico , rhode island , vermont , washington , and wisconsin wrote in opposition to providing a safe harbor for mtbe . 
in april of this year , the u.s. conference of mayors , the national league of cities , the national association of counties , the association of california water agencies and other sent letters voicing their opposition . 
this is a bad provision and we should strip it from the bill . 
vote for this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
for the third time in 5 years , the house republican leadership has passed up an historic opportunity to craft an energy policy for the 21st century . 
with oil prices hitting record levels and repeated predictions that the cost of a barrel of oil could hit over $ 100 in the coming years , we should be focusing our efforts on alleviating our nation 's dependence on fossil fuels . 
instead , h.r. 6 is stuck in the past . 
modeled after the energy plan developed by vice president cheney 's secret energy committee 4 years ago , h.r. 6 reflects the philosophy that the only solution to the high price of oil is more oil . 
however , analyses by the u.s. department of energy 's energy information administration indicate that even if the provisions of h.r. 6 becomes law , america 's imports of foreign oil will still increase by as much as 85 percent during the next 20 years , thereby increasing our dependency . 
h.r. 6 should have been an honest , bipartisan effort to halt america 's growing dependence on fossil fuels for energy . 
it could have been focused on developing new technologies , improving energy efficiency , promoting renewable energy , and conducting the research and development that could produce the breakthroughs that would power the world of tomorrow . 
i have no objection to supporting some new or additional oil and gas exploration or production because , until we develop the energy alternatives of the future , we must continue to meet our oil and gas needs . 
unfortunately , the majority of the bill 's eight billion dollars in energy tax incentives are for oil and gas production . 
that 's billions in tax breaks , paid for by our children and grandchildren , going to energy companies that have been earning record profits . 
even president bush admitted recently `` ... .. 
with $ 55 oil , we do n't need incentives for oil and gas companies to explore. '' his fiscal year 2006 budget called for $ 6.7 billion in tax breaks for energy with 72 percent going toward renewable sources of energy and energy efficiency . 
in contrast , h.r. 6 only provides six percent of the tax benefits for renewable energy and energy efficiency . 
in addition , h.r. 6 irresponsibly sacrifices environmental protection for petroleum production . 
exposing our great natural treasures , especially the north carolina coastline , to exploitation and possible degradation is not responsible . 
for example the bill shuts states out from the appeals process for offshore mineral development , thereby limiting coastal states ' ability to protect their coastlines from unwanted energy development . 
i am also dismayed that h.r. 6 continues to provide liability protection for methyl tertiary butyl ether ( mtbe ) manufacturers for past contamination of water supplies . 
so republicans believe when somebody gets sick from mtbe , these companies should not be held accountable . 
that 's just plain wrong . 
if it becomes law , the provision will force local governments to foot the bill for removing mtbe from water supplies . 
it was this single issue that scuttled the energy bill last year . 
despite this , the republican leadership 's arrogance demands that this provision remain in the bill . 
gas prices in america continue to reach record heights . 
natural gas prices have increased raising the cost not only of the gas itself but of derivative products like fertilizer . 
gas prices and energy costs affect every american . 
this problem is particularly acute in farm country . 
unfortunately , the republican congressional leadership wasted an opportunity to develop a prudent energy policy that directly addresses these issues and instead developed a bill that serves as a tremendous handout to oil companies . 
as a result , i oppose h.r. 6 . 
mr. chairman , i rise today to state my opposition to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act . 
we can not simply seek more fossil fuel supplies and increase use of conventional energy sources as a long-term solution to improving the united states ' energy security . 
instead of creating a truly comprehensive plan for addressing our energy needs , this legislation sets us on the wrong path , making us more reliant on oil than we already are . 
it will not help consumers save on energy costs and it will not help the u.s. become energy independent . 
this legislation sends us in the wrong direction by relying on the fuels of today to provide energy in the future . 
we can not sacrifice investment in new , cleaner , domestic sources in order to pay $ 8.1 billion to oil producers in tax cuts and subsidies . 
i am pleased to see that h.r. 6 does contain some encouraging provisions , such as increasing use of ethanol and biodiesel , but these provisions are far outweighed by the bill 's misguided support of oil . 
we need to create new , clean , renewable resources for addressing our current and future needs and develop technology and programs that encourage conservation . 
this legislation would allow the oil industry , currently experiencing some of its most profitable years , to further their reach through exploration in sensitive environments , such as the arctic national wildlife refuge , and the great lakes . 
allowing such activities is misguided at best . 
additionally , h.r. 6 takes mtbe producers off the hook for dirtying local drinking water supplies and passes the costs of the clean up to state and local government . 
additionally , this legislation will not stabilize the electricity market . 
one of the primary purposes of developing a comprehensive energy policy for the u.s. is to prevent another regional blackout and to prevent future enron-like scandals . 
the legislation that was brought to the house floor exposes consumers to potential electricity scams by repealing the public utility holding company act ( pucha ) . 
this measure was enacted to prevent companies like enron from holding monopolies and help consumers get justice when companies conspire to cheat . 
the federal energy regulatory commission is not designed to effectively protect consumers . 
in order to create a policy that looks to future needs and u.s. security , we can not rely on increased drilling and oil refineries . 
we must look to methods to reduce our need for energy and expand the domestic and renewable resources available to us . 
finding new , efficient , clean , renewable sources of energy is not just better than continuing down the path h.r. 6 sends us on , it is necessary for the security of the u.s . madam chairman , i rise in strong opposition to this so-called comprehensive energy bill before us today . 
this energy package have a new wrapping and bow but it is the same white elephant gift for the american people that sadly passed in this house last congress . 
our nation 's energy policy must strike a sound balance by pursuing improvements in fuel technology and energy efficiency ; maintaining a clean environment ; and preserving our wilderness areas and public lands . 
instead , by refusing to commit to improving and investing in sustainable fuel technology , we are putting our technology and manufacturing industries at a competitive disadvantage when the rest of the planet is searching for alternatives to fossil fuels . 
we are missing an opportunity here ; as a future energy policy this legislation is bumbling along because of following the policies in this bill would be like driving into the future by looking through the rearview mirror with its heavily weighted dependence on fossil fuels . 
h.r. 6 falls depressingly short of addressing our energy needs in both the short and the long term . 
based on the pro-industry recommendations of the cheney energy task force report , this bill is anti-taxpayer , anti-environment , anti-consumer and is loaded down with special-interest giveaways . 
madam chairman , more than ninety percent of the subsidies in h.r. 6 would go to the oil , gas , coal and nuclear industries , leading to more pollution , more oil drilling and more radioactive-waste-producing nuclear power . 
by contrast , only about six percent of the tax breaks would go to energy efficiency and renewable energy incentives that could actually save consumers money and reduce our dependence on dirty energy sources . 
madam chairman , gas prices , gas prices , gas prices and more gas prices . 
it 's the most asked question i hear in my district and rightly so with prices in my home town of more than $ 3 a gallon and a national average price at a record level of $ 2.24 a gallon -- more than 50 percent higher than average gas prices in 2002 . 
according to the bush administration 's own energy department estimates , this republican bill will actually increase gas prices by 3 cents and will have virtually no effect on production , consumption , or barrel prices . 
american consumers are being squeezed at the pump while the big oil companies are reaping record profits and the republican leadership is passing an energy bill that will further raise gas prices . 
how in good faith can we go back to out constituencies with a national energy policy that does not address the future , does not address short term fixes or long term solutions . 
madam chairman , several provisions in h.r. 6 will weaken california 's rights as a state to govern itself . 
these include changes in : lng terminal siting , weakening the coastal zone management act , and expanding alternative energy projects situated on the outer continental shelf ( ocs ) . 
the bill will hand over exclusive jurisdiction for the siting of liquefied natural gas ( lng ) facilities to the federal energy regulatory commission ( ferc ) , preventing the states from having a role in approving the location of lng terminals and the conditions under which these terminals must operate . 
this bill even goes as far as making the states seek ferc permission before conducting safety inspections ! 
plus , they will be barred from taking any independent enforcement action against lng terminal operators for safety violations . 
h.r. 6 weakens california 's rights under the czma to object to a ferc-approved coastal pipeline or energy facility project when the project is inconsistent with the state 's federally-approved coastal management program . 
currently when there is a disagreement about a project , the secretary of commerce , through an administrative appeals process , determines whether and under what conditions the project can go forward . 
states can present new evidence supporting their arguments to the secretary . 
under h.r. 6 , states will not be allowed to present new evidence to the secretary , and the secretary will not be allowed to seek out evidence on his or her own . 
the secretary will only be allowed to rely on the record compiled by ferc . 
furthermore , the bill imposes an expedited timeline for appeals , which may not allow a full review of the facts . 
we have to protect our shores and near waters . 
h.r. 6 will give the department of interior permitting authority for `` alternative '' energy projects , such as wind projects , situated on the outer continental shelf ( ocs ) . 
it also grants the department of interior authority to permit other types of energy facilities , including facilities to `` support the exploration , development , production , transportation , or storage of oil , natural gas , or other minerals '' . 
another very dear issue in california is the fuel additive mtbe ( methyl tertiary butyl ether ) , i oppose shielding mtbe producers from product liability lawsuits , thereby forcing taxpayers to pick up the tab to clean up contaminated groundwater in places such as the salinas valley , the salad bowl of the world , which has already tested positive for mtbe . 
the bill even includes a $ 2 billion taxpayer-financed subsidy to mtbe producers to convert facilities to produce other chemicals . 
the obvious gouging of california consumers is significant evidence that the electricity energy market lacks much needed controls . 
does h.r. 6 correct this ? 
no -- instead of protecting americans from the market manipulation that has become all too prevalent , h.r. 6 is weighed down by special interest exemptions that will do more harm than good . 
the bill does not give federal regulators the tools they need to prevent and punish bad actors like enron who manipulate power markets . 
instead h.r. 6 offers cosmetic reforms . 
moreover , the bill does nothing to provide refunds to my constituents and west coast consumers who paid unjust and unreasonable electricity prices during 2000-2001 . 
madam chairman , it 's plain and simple -- h.r. 6 : fails to lower gasoline prices ; fails to improve our nation 's energy efficiency or promote sustainable alternatives ; fails to adequately address future infrastructure needs ; fails to learn from the lessons of the california electricity crisis ; and fails to prevent future `` enrons '' from manipulating energy markets at the expense of consumers . 
i urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation so we can develop a comprehensive energy policy that looks to the future and does n't rely on repackaged outdated technologies from the past . 
madam chairman , this legislation takes our nation in the wrong direction and fails to meet our energy needs . 
this is a missed opportunity . 
we could have boosted our nation 's commitment to renewable and efficient energy , thereby curbing our reliance on foreign oil , creating 21st century jobs , protecting the environment and providing affordable and reliable energy for america 's families . 
we could have taken on the oil companies that are gouging all our constituents at the gas pumps . 
we could have fought for more hybrid vehicles , higher fuel economy standards and other 21st century technologies . 
but , instead , the republican energy bill doles out favors to the oil , gas and coal companies , keeping our nation stuck in the 20th century . 
this bill allows the oil companies to rip up the arctic national wildlife refuge . 
this bill protects companies that have polluted our water with mtbe . 
we now know that gop means gas , oil and petroleum ! 
the rules committee blocked two amendments i would have offered to this bill . 
the first would have simply extended the tax credit for geothermal energy , giving energy companies the time they need to build geothermal facilities and actually use the incentive this congress already approved . 
my amendment would have promoted the development of geothermal energy in imperial valley , california , and around the nation , creating good jobs and a source of clean , domestically-produced , environmentally friendly , reliable energy . 
yet the republicans on the rules committee shot down this common sense amendment , preventing us from even taking a vote on it . 
they also blocked my amendment to address another very serious issue we are facing in imperial valley -- air pollution from power plants across the border in mexico . 
in the 21st century , u.s. companies should not be able to skirt their environmental obligations by moving a few miles across the border ! 
my amendment would have simply required power plants in the border region to meet our environmental standards if they wish to transmit electricity into the united states . 
in exchange for transmission permits from the department of energy , power plants in mexicali , mexico would have been forced to pay for projects in imperial valley to off-set the air pollution they are sending across the border into our communities . 
with the highest child asthma rate in california , imperial county certainly needs the help , but the republicans on the rules committee once again turned their backs on us . 
we will continue fighting for a better approach to energy in this nation . 
we will fight for an investigation of the oil companies to determine if any wrongdoing has contributed to the sky-high gas prices . 
we will fight for a commitment to geothermal energy and other clean and renewable energy sources . 
and we will continue fighting for an energy policy that reduces pollution in the border region and around the country . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the amendment . 
i enjoy it when the gentleman brings macadamia nuts into the committee ; we enjoy those a lot . 
but i would not propose that we make ethanol out of it . 
it simply makes no sense at all to try to turn sugar , or for that matter corn , into gasoline . 
additionally , those of us who oppose ethanol need to stand up today to oppose this amendment because what may seem like a small program now , once sugar states discover what corn states have discovered , it will become much , much bigger and spending will become more and more and more . 
10 million will become 20 and then 30 and then soon it is hundreds of millions of dollars . 
this comes at the detriment of taxpayers who will pay more at the pump . 
again , let me say that the purpose of this bill , the stated purpose , is during an energy crisis to bring down the cost of energy . 
and here we are employing programs that will simply make you pay , one , more at the pump , and , two , more in taxes because you are supporting this kind of subsidy . 
i thought it was kind of strange , when i was a kid the worse prank you could play , it was hardly a prank , it was property damage , but was to put sugar in someone 's tank . 
that was the worst thing you could do . 
and here you are going to ask the taxpayers to pay for it . 
it just seems wrong to me . 
with all deference to my good friend from hawaii , i just do not think that i can support this amendment . 
i am under no illusion , given the committee 's support , the republican 's support for the amendment that i can beat it . 
but someone needs to stand up and say what this really is . 
it is another taxpayer subsidy that is going to raise the cost of energy . 
for that reason i oppose it . 
let us keep sugar out of your gas tank . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield my remaining time to the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me the time . 
i just want to point out the cost of a can of 7-up or coke does cost more because we inflate the price of sugar . 
the cost of a candy bar , i believe , is four cents more than you would pay otherwise because of subsidized sugar prices . 
and the problem is what economists call concentrated benefits , diffuse costs . 
nobody is going to come here to washington to lobby against a subsidy that only costs them four cents ; but , boy , the sugar industry , which reaps millions and millions of dollars in benefits from subsidized sugar is surely going to come to washington , and that is why we are going to have this kind of amendment today . 
mr. speaker , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. speaker , i appreciate the honesty of the gentleman . 
let me suggest the way that he can reunite himself : help us vote down the rule . 
that will not jeopardize the bill . 
when the rule is voted down , the rules committee will have to do the right thing . 
mr. speaker , this rule to begin with is further evidence of the contempt which the majority of this house has for something called democracy . 
we have heard in a few brief minutes from both a republican and a democrat their unhappiness that important issues will not be brought forward . 
why ? 
well , we work probably all day today ; we may work a half day tomorrow . 
so in this week when we could have worked many days and debated many amendments at length , we will have some not discussed at all and others discussed for a handful of minutes because this majority can not be bothered with anything as cumbersome to them as open debate and having members have to record themselves . 
one of the issues which is given inadequate time , it is given some time but inadequate time , i think 10 minutes , is an outrageous effort by the majority to further diminish the ability of elected state governments to defend their own citizens . 
state governments are sometimes popular around here and sometimes not . 
when state governments , democratically elected governors and legislatures , appear to be obstacles to letting major players in the energy industry get whatever they want , then they are to be diminished , they are to be dismissed , they are to be thrown out of the process . 
with regard to liquefied natural gas terminals , a very important issue , an issue which has become more important because of their relevance to the terrorism threat which security officials tell us is the case , this bill takes a limited state role in the siting of these and makes it a nonexistent state role . 
the ability of governors and legislatures -- i have a republican governor in my state who does not like a proposal to site an energy plant in a wholly inappropriate place , way up river in the city of four rivers , which the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern ) xz4002630 and i share . 
this governor 's objections will be muffled . 
so i guess i should congratulate you on the bipartisanship of your contempt for democracy . 
it is not just our colleague from tennessee who could not get amendments through ; my republican governor can not get his voice heard . 
this rule and this bill ought to be defeated . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , my amendment would strike section 2005 of h.r. 6 . 
this section of the bill requires the secretary of the interior to suspend collection of royalty fees from oil and gas companies operating in the deep waters of the gulf of mexico . 
the authors say this provision is needed to `` encourage '' oil and gas companies to explore for and produce oil and gas at water depths greater than 400 feet in the gulf of mexico . 
let there be no misunderstanding . 
this royalty relief is a subsidy to oil and gas companies . 
it is unnecessary and is nothing more than corporate welfare for the oil and gas industry . 
subsidies will not increase production of domestic oil and gas . 
the energy information administration and interior secretary norton have both asserted that subsidies would do little to enhance domestic production of oil and gas . 
even the president , a former oilman , recognizes that royalty relief is not a good idea . 
just yesterday he said , `` with oil at more than $ 50 a barrel , by the way , energy companies do not need taxpayer funded incentives to explore for oil and gas. '' mr. chairman , the deep waters of the gulf of mexico have seen consistent and striking growth in oil and gas exploration for 10 straight years . 
deepwater projects have increased by 51 percent since 2002 . 
clearly no one needs an incentive to explore for oil and gas in one of the most vital areas in the world . 
therefore , there was no rational justification for this section . 
it is just more special treatment for oil and gas at the expense of everybody else . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from west virginia ( mr. rahall ) xz4003310 , the ranking member of the committee on resources . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california ( mr. george miller ) xz4002780 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind ) xz4002180 . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
h.r. 6 guarantees an additional financial windfall , courtesy of the taxpayers , for oil and gas companies already reaping and sowing profits , record profits , and provides absolutely no guarantee of relief for the high price that consumers are paying for their gas and oil . 
i urge members to reject this approach and , instead , support my amendment which brings some semblance of fiscal responsibility to h.r. 6 . 
i find it ironic that the provision this amendment attempts to strike would stop the collection of royalties , yet throughout h.r. 6 , the $ 2.5 billion in subsidies that the gentleman from west virginia ( mr. rahall ) xz4003310 pointed out , $ 2 billion of which go to the ultra-deep provision , is so strongly supported by the majority leader . 
i think it is time for the members of congress to say in terms of subsidies and handouts to rich , profitable companies , when is enough enough ? 
i urge a `` yes '' vote on this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , i offer an amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield my remaining 30 seconds to my good friend and colleague , the gentlewoman from california ( ms. solis ) xz4003840 . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman , but sometimes enough is enough and members want to go home . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote , and pending that , i make the point of order that a quorum is not present . 
mr. chairman , i yield 45 seconds to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey ) xz4004360 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 45 seconds to the other gentlewoman from california ( mrs. davis ) xz4000971 . 
that is fine , if the gentlewoman would yield . 
mr. chairman , it is my understanding that i also have 1 minute remaining on the underlying amendment . 
mr. chairman , will the gentlewoman yield ? 
mr. chairman , on the second order amendment , how much time does the gentlewoman from connecticut have remaining ? 
mr. chairman , i yield myself 2 minutes , and i thank my colleague for yielding her time to me . 
mr. chairman , to begin to address the second order amendment , which , as i say , may be technically and in parliamentary terms called a perfecting amendment , but in fact it would gut the amendment , it does not get at the heart of the problem , which is that the tests are wrong . 
the tests are unrealistic . 
the tests give results that bear no relationship to reality . 
why should taxpayers pay for a test , a government-mandated test , or auto purchasers pay for a test that gives inaccurate information ? 
we need to fix the epa test . 
it can be fixed without giving the folks in the state of michigan or other automobile manufacturing areas heartburn . 
it does not change the fleet average calculation . 
it only addresses the issue of consumer information , so that the purchaser will have accurate information . 
if you use this scale factor , or fudge factor , it will paper over the underlying problem . 
it will distort the fuel efficiency difference between different types of vehicles . 
in fact , my colleague earlier talked about how some hybrid vehicles behave differently under different situations . 
the tests themselves need to be changed , not an after-the-fact fudge factor , so that when you go into the showroom to purchase a car and you see the number in the window for city mileage and highway mileage , you will have a reasonable expectation that that car , when used on actual american streets and actual american highways , will give mileage comparable to what is posted there . 
the ad says your actual mileage may vary . 
the way it is today , with the tests that we have , your actual mileage may bear no relationship whatsoever to what is printed in the window . 
that is what we are trying to correct with the johnson-holt amendment . 
the rogers second order amendment completely changes the nature of what we are trying to do . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume , and i am offering an amendment to the energy bill for a study of the potential for fuel savings from information technology . 
this will help businesses and consumers and , really , the country at large . 
suppose you are driving to work . 
today , you can listen to the radio and get some traffic information . 
you can use that , occasionally , to avoid delays . 
but what if you had something in your car that was giving you real-time information that would say , turn right now and save 10 minutes , and you could use that every day ? 
you would save time , fuel , and money . 
multiply that by the millions of people commuting doing the same thing , and it adds up to a real difference in our fuel use . 
i mean , how many times have you driven around the block looking for a place to park ? 
suppose you had a system in your car that told you where the open parking spots are and how to get there ? 
mr. chairman , this is not buck rogers stuff . 
this is not so far fetched . 
information technology is cheap . 
the electronic systems are inexpensive and easy to install , but we have not really looked at them systematically . 
so where my legislation talks about web-based real-time transit information systems , or congestion information systems , or carpool information systems , do not think of them as systems ; think of them as saving time so you can get home to read a bedtime story to your kids or get to work not quite so frazzled and save money . 
suppose you thought about taking a bus to get across town . 
nowadays , you pretty much face the prospect of standing at the bus stop hoping the bus comes along , wondering if the bus will come along , wondering when you will get to work . 
what if you had a monitor , maybe on your cell phone , maybe at the bus stop that would tell you what the schedule is , where the bus is now , and when the bus will be at your stop ? 
you could even check before you left your house . 
these kinds of things are here today , not widely installed ; but they could be . 
my amendment simply calls for a study of the energy savings that would come from such things . 
i think it is straightforward and will be attractive to people all over the country , to businesses , to individuals , to cities , and of course to those who care about our energy usage ; and i urge its passage . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , how much time remains ? 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the energy legislation that we are debating on the house floor today . 
as an energy scientist who spent nearly a decade working at one of the nation 's premiere alternative energy research labs i understand the complex and challenging nature of moving toward sustainable energy sources . 
having served in this body for more than six years , i understand the difficulties in balancing competing interests to obtain a policy that benefits the nation . 
unfortunately , rather than providing a productive and clear vision that leads this nation towards energy independence , this bill subsidizes oil and gas companies and eases environmental regulations and fails to put the u.s. on the right path . 
this legislation sets a dangerous precedent by allowing the destruction of one of our national treasures to extract a minimal amount of resources . 
the very essence of the arctic refuge is that it is a pristine and untouched ecosystem . 
this unique environment serves as a critical breeding or migratory habitat for over 200 species of animals including polar and grizzly bears . 
arctic wolves , and endangered species like the shaggy musk ox . 
this legislation completely ignores the precious nature of this land and instead provides yet one more opportunity for oil and gas companies to expand their operations . 
if this legislation is approved all americans will lose something special and irreplaceable . 
there are some good points in this bill . 
it does authorize increases in research on efficiency and renewable energy in future years . 
and i would like to thank my colleagues for accepting my amendment for a study of fuel savings from information technology for transportation . 
but the good points of the bill are far outweighed by the bad . 
instead of investing in cleaner , long term solutions , this bill brushes aside our nation 's future energy needs in order to provide nearly 8 billion of taxpayer dollars to the oil , gas and other traditional energy industries to promote short-term , polluting energy sources . 
these tax incentives should not be going to industries that are thriving , but should be used to invest in our future by increasing research funding for alternative energy sources such as wind energy , fuel cells and fusion . 
everyone knows that we have a serious energy problem in this country . 
our dependence on foreign oil affects not only our economy but also our national security . 
we will never drill our way to independence domestically . 
yet we have an energy bill that is stuck in the past that yet again seeks to drill a little deeper , in a few more places . 
we need a responsible and sustainable approach to addressing our nation 's energy needs . 
on behalf of the residents of the 12th district , i pledge to continue to work toward the development of a balanced , comprehensive energy plan -- one that finds environmentally friendly , sustainable ways to decrease our dependence on foreign oil and slow the degradation of our planet . 
mr. chairman , i rise today to express my concerns with the army corps of engineers and my hope that language included in this bill will rein their disregard for congressional requests . 
i concur with the committee 's expressed dissatisfaction with the army corps managing of water projects and their excessive transfer of funds between projects . 
many of us have long been frustrated with the army corps is their mishandling of projects throughout the nation . 
although congress authorizes and appropriates specific projects , the army corps repeatedly ignores these guidelines and sets their own priorities . 
this has resulted significant delays that further distress the communities near these uncompleted projects . 
in the 12th congressional district , the environmental restoration of grover 's mill pond is a most egregious example of the army corps disregard for congressionally mandated projects . 
located at the site made famous by orson wells ' `` war of the worlds '' radio broadcast , grover 's mill pond is not only a historic site , but it is a recreation destination within west windsor township and a vital link in the township 's stream corridors and watershed area . 
years of sediment build-up and runoff from the watershed have caused the pond to become overrun with aquatic weeds and algae . 
this pond in its current condition is not only an eyesore for the community and the residents that live near it , but gives off an unpleasant odor in the summer . 
completion of this project is long overdue , and could have been completed had the army corps not transferred almost all of the $ 500 , 000 that was specifically designated by congress for this project . 
thankfully , the committee has once again designated funding for this project , and i expect that the army corps will follow congressional designation and not once again shortchange my constituents in favor of a project they deem more worthy . 
unfortunately , other unfinished projects in my district such as mccarter 's pond and rogers pond did not receive additional funding in this bill . 
i am hopeful that the strong and clear direction the committee has given the army corps in this bill will force them to complete such projects in the future and encourage them not to create such unpleasant situations in the future . 
i thank the committee for their desire to assist my constituents and this nation by providing additional funds for unfinished projects and expressing their severe dissatisfaction with the army corps management of water projects . 
i hope this legislation will serve as an important step in reforming this agency and ensuring that our communities receive the environmental restoration assistance they desperately need . 
mr. chairman , there are very few things i like about this energy bill . 
however , i do support title ix , and i am proud to be the ranking member of the committee on science 's energy subcommittee , which authored this portion of the bill . 
we have included such beneficial programs as energy efficiency and renewable energy research and development in the areas of solar , wind , geothermal , bioenergy , and other alternative energy sources that will be critical to our future energy independence . 
also included are research programs into distributed energy and electric energy systems , which will make us less reliant on fragile transmission grid , and the next generation lighting initiative , which will reduce future demand for electricity through efficiency . 
we have also increased support for the basic sciences at the department of energy generally and focused on several programs in particular , such as nanotechnology research and development , advanced scientific computing research , and fusion energy sciences . 
it is a credit to the collegial bipartisan nature of the committee on science members and staff that all of these important provisions are included in a product that both sides of the aisle can support . 
there is so much agreement that i do not have any amendments to offer here today ; and as a side bar , i would like to also commend the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 , chairman ; and the gentleman from tennessee ( mr. gordon ) xz4001550 , our ranking member , for this kind of collegial activity . 
unfortunately , i can not say the same thing about the rest of the bill . 
drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge and liability waivers for producers of mtbe are not going to reduce gas prices today and are not steps toward a sustainable energy future . 
and in contrast , the bill does not address increasing fuel economy standards , which is a concrete step we can take to reduce energy consumption . 
even president bush , an oil man , admits that with $ 55 a barrel of oil , we do not need incentives for oil and gas companies to explore . 
he recently said , `` there are plenty of incentives . 
what we need is to put a strategy in place that will help this country over time become less dependent. '' this bill does not do enough to make this nation less dependent on energy , be it from imported or domestic sources . 
we need a bill that focuses on our long-term future needs , not one that is stuck in the past . 
i urge my colleagues to oppose this bill . 
mr. speaker , i take this time for the purpose of inquiring of the majority leader the schedule for the coming week . 
mr. speaker , i yield to the distinguished majority leader , the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay ) xz4001040 . 
mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman for informing us of that schedule . 
mr. leader , tomorrow is a day on which the conference report on the budget is supposed to be adopted , as you well know . 
however , the house is yet to appoint conferees . 
when might we appoint conferees , given the fact that we are already behind schedule ? 
mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman . 
obviously he articulates reasons that he believes this bill is an important piece of legislation . 
in light of the fact that the speaker has not yet decided who he wants to appoint as conferees , does the gentleman have any thought as to when we might contemplate having the conference committee meet and then , of course , the conference report on the floor ? 
i ask that from two perspectives : one , as the representative of the party who would like to know what is going on , as i am sure the gentleman would as well ; and , secondly as an appropriator . 
as the gentleman knows , until the conference committee report is adopted , it has the appropriations committees somewhat in limbo as it relates to allocations to the committees and then allowing us to make the 302 ( b ) allocations . 
mr. speaker , i yield further to my friend in terms of what expectations he might have as to timing from this point to when we might adopt a budget , in light of the fact it is my understanding from the staff of the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis ) xz4002391 that there is hope that we will start to mark up bills sometime in mid-may . 
i do not know whether the majority leader has the same understanding or not . 
i would be pleased to yield to my friend , the gentleman from california , the distinguished chairman of the committee on appropriations . 
mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i appreciate the gentleman 's observation . 
my presumption is then , mr. chairman , before he leaves the floor , my presumption would be , for the members of the house and also for the members of the committee on appropriations , that the committee on appropriations will proceed as if the house numbers were the numbers ? 
am i correct on that ? 
i yield to the gentleman . 
i yield to the gentleman from texas . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman . 
reclaiming my time , the business that the gentleman from texas has set forth for next week is the energy business . 
given the schedule the gentleman has just announced , would the gentleman expect the bill to be on the floor both wednesday and thursday ? 
mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the leader . 
given the time that is allocated to this bill , i presume , as the leader has apparently indicated , that it is the expectation of the committee on rules to have a full amendatory process . 
my expectation is you are not going to have a fully open rule but that you would have some modified open rule . 
am i correct on that ? 
i yield to the gentleman from texas . 
mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , some of us do not believe that is quite as obvious as the gentleman does . 
i yield back to the gentleman . 
mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i appreciate the leader 's observation . 
i know that , on our side , we had a discussion on that bill this morning . 
all of us believe the energy bill is a very , very important piece of legislation . 
all of us are concerned about the gas prices that are confronting all of our constituents . 
i have a number of employees who commute significant distances . 
although they live relatively close by , it is a 45-minute commute in traffic and a lot of gas , and they spend a lot of money on gasoline . 
in addition to that , energy independence , of course , is part of our national security . 
so we are hopeful that we will fashion a bill in a bipartisan way that we can see passed and signed by the president . 
mr. speaker , the last item i would ask the majority leader about is , as the gentleman knows , the ethics process in the house is essentially at a standstill . 
the gentleman has made that observation , obviously ; and we have made that observation as well . 
efforts to move the ethics process forward have failed so far , both in committee and on the floor , when virtually all of the members on the gentleman 's side of the aisle , now twice , have voted to table motions that would have provided for the appointment of a bipartisan task force to make recommendations to restore public confidence in the ethics process . 
as the gentleman knows , the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin ) xz4000640 , he was sitting to my left here , although he is now to my right ; maybe he is running for office and wants to position himself ; but the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin ) xz4000640 and mr. livingston performed an outstanding service for this house in coming together and adopting and presenting , proposing a bipartisan ethics process . 
we had that in place , as the gentleman knows , and it was changed , we believe , in a partisan fashion . 
we oppose that change , as the gentleman knows , as does the former chairman of the committee on standards of official conduct , the gentleman from colorado ( mr. hefley ) xz4001740 . 
he and the gentleman from west virginia ( mr. mollohan ) xz4002810 have a bill , and that bipartisan resolution has now 207 cosponsors , and that would simply return the ethics rules to where they were , adopted bipartisanly , proposed bipartisanly by the livingston-cardin committee , and it would return to a place where we believe the committee on standards of official conduct would not be at impasse . 
we are also concerned about , as the gentleman knows , the chairman 's proposition that we have a partisan division now of the ethics staff , which heretofore has been a bipartisan , i might even say nonpartisan , staff . 
i would respectfully inquire , given that background , which the gentleman knows , of course , if and when we might see house joint resolution 131 on the floor . 
as i say , it has 207 cosponsors . 
it reflects the bipartisan agreement of the livingston-cardin committee and the bipartisan vote of this house some years ago in adopting the livingston-cardin option . 
in the alternative , of course , when we might find an opportunity to support a bipartisan commission that could again look at this and try to get us off the dime . 
i know i have mentioned a number of points , mr. leader , but i know that the gentleman believes it is important personally and institutionally . 
i have worked with the gentleman institutionally . 
we want to see this institution not mired in ethical questions of our side or of the gentleman 's side . 
i think that either direction might get us there . 
mr. speaker , i ask the leader respectfully if he thinks that we might proceed in either direction , or perhaps both , and i yield to my friend . 
mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank the leader for his thoughtful response . 
we have a difference of view on the change that was made from the livingston-cardin and house-adopted ethics rules which provided for an investigation of any member to go forward unless a majority of the committee disposed of it . 
that meant , as the gentleman knows , that it would have to be bipartisan , because the committee is equally divided , so we would have to have at least one other member , assuming one party was united on either side , one other member of the other party to join in the disposition of a case . 
and if that disposition did not occur , an investigation would go forward . 
unfortunately , it is our perception , i say to the gentleman , that what the speaker , because the gentleman said the speaker wanted to protect the members , what the speaker has done from our perspective and , we think , from the perspective of many is created a process where on the inaction of the committee , based upon a tie vote so that a partisan group can stop an investigation , that the investigation will thereby be dismissed . 
so it turned the process 180 degrees , from having a bipartisan vote to dismiss to now having a partisan vote or a bipartisan vote necessary to proceed . 
we believe that undermines the protection of the institution . 
we believe that that was not necessary in order to protect individuals and members , which we think is an appropriate due-process protection . 
i certainly will , but let me make one additional point . 
every previous change that i know of , and you and i have been here about the same time . 
i have been here perhaps a couple of years longer than you . 
every change that i know of in the ethics rules have been affected by a bipartisan agreement until this one . 
there were only a few votes , i think we were almost unanimous on our side , which is not unusual , which is why the ethics rules has historically been separate and apart , perhaps in the rules package , but agreed to in a bipartisan fashion . 
and that is my concern . 
and i will be glad to yield my friend . 
mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , i thank again the gentleman for his thoughtful remarks . 
we see it differently , mr. leader . 
what we have created is the ability of both sides to stop investigations in their tracks . 
both sides . 
our side , if we block up , and our five say you are not going to investigate steny hoyer , they can do it . 
formerly they could not do that . 
and i believe your analogy is not apt , and i want to tell you why i think so , mr. leader . 
the investigation is the gathering of facts , not the charging , not the finding of involvement . 
we do not use the term `` guilt , '' but the finding of involvement . 
it is an investigation to gather the facts from which the decision-makers , whether it be a grand jury or a petit jury , whether it be a judge or whether it be a prosecutor who determines whether to bring an indictment . 
once those decision-makers have the facts , they can then make a rational decision , we hope . 
what we have done , however , in changing the rules , which were adopted in a bipartisan fashion , is to allow either side to preclude the investigator from gathering the facts . 
that is as if we could preclude the police or the fbi or others from gathering facts that they would then , in turn , submit to a decision-maker , whether a grand jury to bring an indictment , a prosecutor to bring a charge , a petit jury to bring a conviction . 
i think that is inaccurate i certainly will yield to the leader , but before i do , do you see my point , mr. leader ? 
either one of us could protect ourselves . 
either one of us , your side could protect yourselves by your five holding firm . 
our side could protect ourselves by holding firm . 
that may protect us individually , but our position is it does not protect the institution , and that is what our concern is . 
i yield to my friend . 
no , sir . 
reclaiming my time , mr. leader . 
i want to apologize to the gentleman . 
i will yield back to him . 
mr. speaker , reclaiming my time . 
i will be glad to yield to the gentleman from maryland . 
mr. speaker , i would reclaim my time and certainly yield to the leader . 
mr. speaker , reclaiming my time , just for 1 minute . 
very briefly . 
i would be glad to yield to the leader . 
mr. leader , we obviously have a disagreement in the perceptions as to what the rule does and does not do . 
i think both you and i are very concerned about the reputation and integrity of this house . 
i think you share that view and i share that view . 
it is my suggestion that resolving this in a way that is bipartisan will be productive for the house . 
mr. hefley , the former chairman , i do not agree with mr. hefley xz4001740 on a lot of things , but i do agree with his perception of how we protect the integrity of the house . 
there may be people on my side of the aisle who agree with your perception and not mine . 
i understand that . 
the fact is , though , that it would be in the best interest of this house and this country for us to resolve these matters in a bipartisan way either through , as our leader has proposed , a commission to be a joint commission equally divided , as was the livingston-cardin commission , or , in the alternative , to consider h.r. 131 . 
the leader is absolutely right , and i made that aside , as you recall . 
we did vote against the rules package , but we had agreed to the components , and there was no controversy about the ethics component in the rules package . 
there were other things with which we disagreed , obviously , but that was an agreement , and it was reached in a bipartisan fashion . 
this was not reached in a bipartisan fashion . 
and , yes , as both parties usually did , i can remember , it is getting more difficult to remember , but i can remember when we were in charge and your side used to vote unanimously against our rules package and we pretty much do the same because we have some disagreements . 
but there was agreement on the rules package as it related to the committee on standards of official conduct , and the reason for that is because both sides felt it to be very important . 
reclaiming my time , i think we both agree on that . 
the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin ) xz4000640 wanted to say something , but i wanted to say you were right on the process . 
i was incorrect on the process . 
it was a separate vote on a separate package , and you are right that i and the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin ) xz4000640 and others voted against it . 
it was not on these provisions as you know because a change was made , not in a partisan sense , according to the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin ) xz4000640 . 
mr. speaker , i yield to the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin ) xz4000640 to explain his perception and recollection of the process . 
reclaiming my time , mr. leader , i thank you for taking the time . 
i know you did not have to , and you have been considerate of this discussion because you and i know it is an important discussion . 
because it is an important discussion , i would hope that we could move forward to try to get us off this impasse that we have for whatever reasons . 
and whatever is right or wrong , it needs to be resolved . 
there are two suggestions here of how to resolve it . 
there may be other ways to resolve it . 
but i would hope that in the coming days we could move towards , in a bipartisan fashion , move towards resolving this issue . 
mr. speaker , i heard the previous speaker 's comment . 
this is not a bipartisan bill . 
that does not mean that some democrats will not vote for it , but none of the ranking members were involved in this policy , and they are not voting for it . 
mr. speaker , the united states of america needs an energy strategy that not only reduces our nation 's dependence on foreign sources of oil , but also strengthens our national security . 
as a bipartisan group of 26 national security officials , including robert mcfarlane , president reagan 's national security adviser , and jim woolsey , president clinton 's cia director , recently stated in a letter to president bush : `` it should be a top national security priority of the united states to significantly reduce its consumption of foreign oil . 
the united states ' dependence on imported petroleum poses a risk to our homeland security and to our economic well-being. '' yet , mr. speaker , this republican energy bill does virtually nothing to reduce our dependence on petroleum products . 
in fact , at a time of record profits for the oil and gas industries , these traditional energy producers stand to reap 93 percent of the tax incentives in this bill , or $ 7.5 billion . 
do we know who said they did not need it ? 
the president of the united states , george w. bush said that just a day ago . 
renewable energy and conservation receive only 7 percent of the resources allotted in this bill . 
this bill is simply a rehash of the same policies and incentives that have made us more , not less , energy dependent . 
it would provide more than $ 22 billion to the oil and gas and other energy industries in tax breaks , direct spending , and authorizations . 
does anybody who is paying $ 2.50 or $ 3 at the pump think that the energy companies are hurting for dollars ? 
i think not . 
it would shift the costs of mtbe cleanup from manufacturers to the american taxpayers . 
i think most americans do not think that is a good policy . 
furthermore , the problem with it is , that is why we do not have an energy bill , because the majority leader demanded of the senate that that be in there , and the senate would not take it . 
it would weaken the clean air act and , unbelievably , this republican bill would actually increase gas prices by 3 cents per gallon , according to the bush administration 's own energy department . 
apparently , this republican majority believes you need to pay more for gasoline . 
there is a reason that this energy bill is going nowhere fast . 
it is bad policy , and it fails to address the energy needs of this great nation . 
i urge my colleagues to oppose it . 
madam chairman , the best way that i can characterize this bill is that it is a jurassic park bill in that it is about dinosaurs , of dinosaurs , and in a sense by dinosaurs . 
it depends on the hope that somehow dead dinosaurs will appear underneath the continent of the united states where they just do not exist . 
we consume 25 percent of the oil ; we have only 3 percent of the world 's oil reserves . 
if you drill in mt . 
ranier national park , the arctic and yosemite , the oil is not there ; the dead dinosaurs decided to die somewhere else . 
this is a doomed policy of searching for dead dinosaurs . 
and it is a dinosaur-like philosophy that we should decide to subsidize technology being developed in the late 1800s in 2005 . 
we should be giving these subsidies to the nascent wind , solar , wave power , energy-efficient cars so we can build energy-efficient cars here rather than in japan . 
you do not give mother 's milk to a 65-year-old person ; you give it to the nascent infant industries that need it . 
that is not what happened to this bill , where 94 percent of the subsidy goes to an industry , the most profitable in american history ; one company had $ 8 billion profit in the third quarter last year on your $ 55 a barrel oil . 
that is what is going on in this bill . 
what we should be doing is hearing lessons from our successful past , where we showed where we increase the efficiency of our cars ; that is an energy future . 
we need the new apollo energy plan , a visionary high-tech plan , not a dinosaur-like plan . 
madam chairman , the gentleman from alaska ( mr. young ) xz4004401 asked a very important question : where are the technologies that we can use to avoid having to destroy the character of one of our most pristine areas in america ? 
and the answer is that we have technologies today that we simply stopped using 20 years ago . 
if you look at this graph , it shows the mileage of our cars that we have . 
you see , starting in 1975 it went up dramatically because we had a bipartisan consensus to demand to use existing technologies to improve our automobile efficiency . 
it went up dramatically , almost doubling , almost doubling by 1985 . 
and then what happened ? 
we fell off the wagon , and since that time , our average full economy shown by this middle line has absolutely , absolutely gone down since 1985 . 
the fact of the matter is , these are not future techno dreams that someone has dreamed up in their garage somewhere ; they are technologies that exist today . 
i drive a car that gets 44 miles to the gallon . 
i am 62 '' , 200 pounds ; it is totally safe and comfortable . 
we need to get back on the fuel efficiency wagon as we were in the 1980s on a bipartisan basis and not put a mustache on the mona lisa . 
you say 2 , 000 acres ? 
it is still a mustache on the mona lisa for our most pristine areas . 
mr. chairman , i would , just in support of this amendment , report how successful our country has been previously with this experience . 
i want to point to a graph showing our fuel efficiency in 1975 , that when we were adopting fuel efficiency standards , rocketed up and almost doubled to 1985 , then stopped when we lost our commitment to fuel efficiency . 
and subsequently it has plateaued ; it has actually gone down . 
the average fuel efficiency today is less than it was in 1985 . 
i want to point this out , because it shows an american success story . 
we were successful in driving safe , efficient , fuel-efficient cars . 
and we got off the fuel-efficiency wagon . 
it is time to go back . 
we cut a deal with canada the other day . 
we can do it in america . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
this amendment is part of our continuing effort to diversify our supplies of energy by increasing the amount of wind power we can generate off of our department of the interior lands , principally , our bureau of land management lands . 
it will do so by cutting in half the royalty that is scheduled to be applied under the blm criteria . 
we are actually quite high , probably in the neighborhood of almost twice sometimes what the private sector and private lands charge . 
reduce it from about $ 2 , 300 on average to about $ 1 , 100 per megawatt . 
this is very similar to a provision we passed last year in the energy bill , and it really follows the tremendous growth of wind energy we are experiencing . 
well , actually wind energy is growing about 30 percent a year , which is rather a herculean growth rate that we are having , and that is because we have abundant wind energy , thankfully , in this great land of ours . 
now , we want to maximize it on our public lands . 
i know in many places we are having success with wind . 
in washington state we are proud of the largest wind farm in the north american hemisphere , at state line , washington , which has about 263 megawatts , powers about 25 , 000 homes . 
we have several projects in washington state , in fact , on public land in washington state we have at least 600 acres very eligible for economically efficient production of wind energy . 
so we think this is a way to help boost wind because what we have found is that every time we increase the number of units of wind energy we use , we decrease its price . 
there is a very clear correlation . 
every time the number of units go up by a factor of 10 , prices come down by 20 percent . 
actually , wind energy has been reduced in price this decade by 80 percent . 
it is a pretty spectacular success story . 
wind is not without any impacts . 
it has aesthetic impacts , of course , but we think this is one way to give a boost to an infant , nascent industry that can go up to a place where right now is very close to market-based , really is market-based rates at this time . 
the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo ) xz4003220 was good enough to agree to an amendment in the resources committee to state a national goal of generating 10 , 000 megawatts of renewable energy from our federal lands within the decade . 
this is one small step in that direction . 
so we hope that we will continue the growth of wind . 
this is one very small part of a larger project i am championing called the new apollo energy project , which really will spur the development of high technology . 
let me lastly state that other countries are having successes as well . 
denmark hopes to have 50 percent of their electrical content generated by wind and other renewables in 2025 . 
they are at about 30 percent now . 
this is not pie in the sky ; it is very achievable . 
we want to grow those jobs here in america , eventually have a domestic wind turbine job base , industrial base ; and we have a lot of jobs to create , hooking up those wind turbines . 
we hope that we can pass this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i appreciate the comments of the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 . 
we can not measure contribution by number , we have to measure by weight . 
however , mr. chairman , i think you are still going to win the debate . 
by the way , i am a new member of the commerce committee . 
i want to thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 , the chairman , for the very fair-minded way that he handled this in committee , in giving both sides an adequate degree of leeway to argue their positions . 
we all appreciate his leadership . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i rise for two reasons : first , to support the right of america 's small , independent gas and auto repair stations to a level playing field ; and second , because we all know that a level playing field ensures free and fair markets , competition and lower gas prices . 
in recent years , we have seen a sweeping consolidation of the oil industry at almost every level , the manufacturing level , wholesalers , refiners , and retailers . 
one corporation can control the prices at every single step , and that increases prices at the street corner . 
my amendment is very straightforward . 
it directs the comptroller general to study the effects of consolidation on prices , on market economics , and small business ownership . 
most people who live in a community for a long time are accustomed to talking about their local service station , where they know their mechanic and their owner , where they know the prices ; but those days are in the past . 
now their local facility is controlled by a giant corporation which has gobbled up their local facility . 
and lower prices on the street corner have also become a thing of the past . 
in 2002 , the senate committee on government reform permanent subcommittee on investigations studied consolidation of fuel refineries . 
the subcommittee 's findings are now over 3 years old , and are alarming in their prescience . 
as the report indicated , corporate interests are dominating pricing , controlling the market and pricing out privately owned retail outlets . 
corporations are earning windfall profits while privately owned stations are struggling to keep afloat . 
the subcommittee did not focus on wholesale and retail consolidation . 
this amendment would achieve that goal and give us the data we need to ensure that consumers are protected from price inflation and our small business owners can compete in a fair market . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich ) xz4002270 . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
the studies that the gentleman cites did not take a look at the top-to-bottom consolidation of the oil industry . 
there have been a number of studies , but each study has been conducted almost in a vacuum without considering the entirety , the entire scope of this problem , a problem that is putting small , independent retailers out of business and driving up prices on every street corner in america . 
we are not taking a position necessarily on the issue . 
we are simply saying it ought to be a responsibility of the federal government to investigate this situation , to talk about the marketplace . 
the other side speaks passionately about free and fair markets and competition . 
the purpose of free , fair and competitive markets is to help drive prices down . 
by opposing this amendment , we are protecting an industry which is driving prices up . 
i am deeply disappointed that the other side would take that position . 
i urge them to reconsider . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in support of mr. castle 's amendment . 
under current law three new liquid natural gas facilities have been constructed in recent years and six others approved . 
current law permits construction of liquid natural gas facilities but it does n't do what this bill in its present form would do : virtually guarantee construction of liquid natural gas facilities in any location where there is a strong energy demand regardless of state and local concerns that arise . 
these concerns can include safety , environmental risks and/or terrorist threats . 
these are not concerns that should be divorced from the approval process . 
in fact , these concerns , and state and local governments ' ability to represent them , ought to be elevated in importance . 
our nation has a heritage of listening to the voice of its people . 
this legislation serves only to silence the voice of americans . 
the leadership of this house has turned a deaf ear to the concerns of long islanders and to the many americans in predicaments like my constituents . 
by granting full authority over the zoning of liquid natural gas facilities to the federal government , this bill grossly violates the so-called republican principle of local control . 
before moving forward with any legislation in regards to liquid natural gas facilities , this body must fully vet the issue through hearings and the commissioning of appropriate studies . 
not a single hearing on the pros and cons of the consequences of shifting zoning authority away from the states and to the federal government was held . 
this is nearsighted and irresponsible . 
the castle amendment ensures that local oversight over these vital zoning issues remains . 
it provides time for the proper detailed review of potential legal changes . 
i urge my colleagues to support the castle amendment and to prevent this federal power grab . 
mr. speaker , i thank my colleague for allowing me to take some time . 
mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to oppose this rule and the underlying bill . 
in a desire to pass any comprehensive energy bill , some of my colleagues may be willing to overlook the massive damage that this bill would do to our existing clean air policies . 
i do not blame the energy companies for ignoring their responsibility . 
it is our responsibility to protect the people as the people 's representatives against dangers . 
as a matter of fact , i acknowledge and applaud txu and ups for their efforts in the right direction in north texas , but section 1443 of h.r. 6 would give polluters in dirty-air areas extra time to continue polluting . 
under the existing act , areas that have unhealthy air are required to reduce ozone-forming smog pollution by set statutory deadlines . 
section 1443 would delay the adoption of urgently needed anti-pollution measures in communities throughout this country for a decade or more . 
my amendments presented to the committee on rules would have corrected this or would have also given some time for the companies to record their progress ; but , of course , they were not made in order . 
my colleagues will hear that the epa does not disapprove of this . 
well , is anybody surprised ? 
these are the people who were appointed by the same people that allowed the energy companies to write most of this bill . 
this provision will mean more asthma attacks , hospital visits , and premature deaths for residents of the ozone odor nonattainment areas which includes the area that all my great friends over here live in and i live in . 
we need a fair bill that addresses the urgent need for clean air for ourselves and our children . 
mr. speaker , prolonging our dirty air problem is not the solution . 
i urge my colleagues that desire clean air for themselves and their constituents to oppose this rule and oppose this bill . 
i am from an energy-producing state . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i rise in strong support of the markey amendment . 
i consider this one of the most important environmental votes congress will cast this year , the vote to protect the arctic national wildlife refuge from oil and gas drilling . 
according to the u.s. geographical survey , this area would produce far less oil than the u.s. consumes in a single year , and is the only conservation area that protects a complete spectrum of arctic and sub-arctic ecosystems in north america . 
the ecosystem will be seriously damaged by drilling in the anwr , make no mistake about it . 
roads , pipelines , drilling platforms and communities to support personnel all involve disturbing this critical natural habitat by moving a great deal of extremely heavy equipment across fragile lands , by locating multi-ton rigs and whole communities of people to support the drilling operation on this fragile land base . 
drilling supporters claim that everything can be done in the refuge using ice roads and platforms . 
but even if ice roads did not melt in summer months , the reality is that there is simply not enough water in the refuge to create the roads and platforms necessary to drill in the anwr refuge . 
just building 1 mile of road takes a million gallons of water . 
there are only eight lakes scattered across the refuge containing enough unfrozen water to build a mile or more of ice roads . 
that means the only alternative truly is permanent gravel roads crisscrossing the refuge and , in fact , there is not one oil field in alaska 's north slope that does not have permanent gravel roads . 
some drilling supporters cite the central arctic caribou herd as illustrating that the caribou and drilling can coexist harmoniously . 
but calving females have completely withdrawn from the drilling area around prudhoe bay and are declining around the kuparak complex . 
while there is ample area for the central arctic herd to move away from the drilling facilities for calving and still be supported , this is not the case for the porcupine caribou herd . 
they are a much larger herd and the coastal plain where they calve is much smaller . 
they would be displaced into the foothills where both they and their calves would be extremely vulnerable to predators . 
finally , it would take a decade to deliver oil from the anwr , and the amount , again , as i said earlier , would be very limited , according to the u.s. geological survey . 
on the other hand , the national petroleum reserve and other areas are capable of providing far more oil . 
in fact , the federal government , the state of alaska , the arctic slope regional corporation , and others are in the process of leasing 50 million undeveloped acres in this region . 
we do not need to drill on the anwr plain . 
if we were to increase the fuel efficiency of automobiles by just 3 miles per gallon , we would save a million barrels of oil a day , five times the amount we would get out of anwr . 
or , if just california increased their use of currently available clean diesel technology cars , pickups and suvs just to the levels seen in europe today , just california could save 110 million gallons of gasoline by the year 2010 . 
so this vote is not about oil , it is about our values and how we balance the value we place on a critical environmental resource and its ecosystems , and the value we place on exploration in a low-yield area . 
indeed , it is about prudent stewardship . 
mr. chairman , i offer an amendment . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time on the rogers amendment so that we can move on to the gentleman from new jersey 's ( mr. holt ) xz4001840 comments on our amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. holt ) xz4001840 on the rogers amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this amendment . 
now , let me get to the heart of this matter , because if i thought this was going to cost people jobs , i certainly would not bring it up . 
this question specifically was litigated in 1985 in the d.c . 
circuit court , center for auto safety v. thomas , and the court clearly determined that the cafe calculation can not be changed unless congress changes u.s. code 49 , section 32904 ( c ) . 
my amendment does not change that section . 
my amendment only changes section 32908 , which has to do with the data that underlies vehicle stickers . 
now , the epa has changed its testing procedures at least twice since 1975 . 
it did not add a lot of cost . 
it was not a big problem . 
it is an epa center that does this testing . 
and every time they changed their testing procedures for the sticker purpose , they did not change it for the cafe standard purpose , because to do that , you have to change section 32904 , and my amendment does not change section 32904 . 
so i am sorry we have not been able to communicate well enough about this , because i certainly do not want to cost manufacturing jobs . 
i am a big advocate of manufacturing . 
but i do want consumers to have honest information . 
and the adjustment in information that the rogers amendment to my amendment brings is an amendment that will bring down the miles per gallon for those that are high achievers and bring it up for those who are actually low achievers . 
so it actually makes the problem worse rather than better . 
so i urge the body to oppose the rogers amendment and support the johnson amendment , because the rogers amendment has the effect of gutting my amendment , whereas my amendment does not address the cafe standards section of the law , which is section 32904 ( c ) and only addresses the vehicle sticker section of the law , 32908 . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. holt ) xz4001840 . 
mr. chairman , i yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. holt ) xz4001840 . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
the over-reliance of the united states on imported petroleum creates a major strategic vulnerability for our nation , with nearly half the energy supply of our country now imported , and that reliance grows every day . 
my amendment has a goal of taking a small step toward energy independence in the following way : we have something called a strategic petroleum reserve managed by the department of the interior , which has in that reserve about 700 million barrels of oil , allowing us to maintain a temporary shield from increased costs on oil . 
the purpose of my amendment only allows , it does not require , the secretary of energy the discretion of including ethanol , biodiesel , and other alternative fuels in the strategic fuel reserve . 
so it takes the word `` petroleum '' out , although petroleum will remain the major fuel ; but it offers some encouragement , albeit mild , to try to get us to think differently about a new future for our country . 
every one of us has that responsibility , including the secretaries of the interior and energy . 
this amendment is neutral . 
if the secretary decided to secure alternative fuels , it would be paid for by the exchange or sale of crude oil from the existing reserve . 
ethanol and other bio-based fuels are two of the ways in which america can truly become more self-sufficient in fuel production and usage . 
this chart shows , just over the last 20 years or so , our petroleum consumption and how much more of it is imported , to now well over half . 
it is projected in another 15 years our imported petroleum will rise to 75 percent . 
by 2050 , most easily drawn-down reserves in the world will have been drawn down , not just by our country but by nations like china , for example , which are using more and more petroleum every year . 
we simply can not live in the 20th century any more . 
it is now the 21st century . 
if we look where we are importing our crude reserves , they are coming largely from the middle east , followed by mexico , venezuela , nigeria , many places that have difficulties politically . 
increasing use of renewable fuels will result in significant economic benefits to our nation as well . 
for example , biodiesel production is dramatically increasing , going from about 5 million gallons in 2001 to five times that much this past 2003 . 
and congress expanded the existing reserve in 2000 to include the northeast home heating oil reserve . 
there is absolutely no reason that biodiesel can not ultimately become part of that reserve and help us to transition off our increasing reliance on petroleum . 
the use of biofuels makes environmental sense , allowing us to better preserve our natural environment . 
biodiesel , for example , contains no sulfur , or aromatics associated with air pollution , and the use of something like biodiesel provides a 78.5 percent reduction in co 2 emissions when compared to petroleum diesel . 
currently the spr , the reserve , contains a number of domestic and foreign crude oils , and those fuels are stored separately . 
adding additional storage capacity for other fuels could be planned very easily by the secretary of energy and the secretary of the interior . 
the national farmers union , for example , is supporting this effort . 
people across this country really know america has to change . 
this is one small baby step . 
it is just encouraging language . 
it asks that those responsible for the current strategic reserve think more creatively , take the time to look at these alternative fuels , and help put america on a more energy-independent course . 
without question , the farmers across this country need new value added ; and with the price of oil skyrocketing , and it really will not go down , it has not gone down in the last 30 years if you look at the progression of oil pricing in the spot markets , for example . 
and now these fuels are competitive . 
there are many states taking the lead . 
take minnesota , take iowa , take nebraska , take the dakotas . 
there are many places that have seen the future and are developing it . 
i think we here in congress should respond to that inventiveness and that desire of the american people to invent their way to a new fuel future . 
and , in fact , when you come to my part of the country and you look across the fields , you can see part of america 's future in the fields of the future , and fuels of the future that will be produced on them and are being produced on them more and more every day . 
why should the departments of energy and the interior not help us to move america forward . 
i would ask for favorable consideration of this amendment . 
and i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 for allowing the amendment and the rules committee for granting it . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time . 
if the gentleman and my colleagues could read the amendment , it does not prescribe any format for the secretaries of energy or interior to use in creating this reserve . 
in fact , the reserve could actually be stored in the form of the raw material which is processed very easily and can be done immediately because the processing technology is on line . 
so it literally could be the type of commodity credit corporation booking that we use for other grains in our country and other material that we use in refining of alcohol-based fuels . 
so it does not say to the secretary that they have to buy it in this form or store it in a given form . 
they could actually store the grain and use the powers of the commodity credit corporation , for example , to broker those reserves . 
but nonetheless it would be available in the country . 
we are talking about a process that actually is simpler than refining petroleum and refining crude and one that is much less dirty . 
so if i could beg the gentleman as we move towards conference , perhaps , i would like to move forward with this amendment in some form to find a manner in which it can work and with which the gentleman is comfortable . 
national farmers union , april 19 , 2005 . 
dear congresswoman kaptur : on behalf of the over 260 , 000 members of the national farmers union , we write in strong support of your amendment to h.r. 6 which will establish renewable fuel reserves as an important foundation to lessening our dependence on foreign oil . 
thanks to your leadership your legislation can help store renewable fuels in case of possible future consumer disruptions . 
we applaud your efforts and we want to work closely with you on making this amendment part of h.r. 6 . 
we look forward to working with you on this issue and commend you for your dedication to renewable fuels . 
sincerely , david j. frederickson , mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , i thank the able gentleman from cleveland and say that the north coast of ohio is well represented here today as we help america , through the kucinich-kaptur amendment , take another small step for humankind toward energy independence . 
this program is budget neutral . 
all it does is it allows for 30 communities in our country to adapt alternatively fueled vehicles in their public fleets , as well as some of the infrastructure to support it . 
it allows for those competitive grants to be in the amount up to $ 15 million as opposed to $ 20 million . 
so we reduce the actual amount , and we increase the number of communities , so we at least have an additional 30 . 
it allows greater energy security , greater economic security and , without a doubt , greater environmental security . 
i want to say thank you to the gentleman , who has been such a leader on this issue , the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich ) xz4002270 , for cleveland and for our country . 
it is important to think about new ways of doing things , to close the book on the 20th century , the petroleum age , and move toward a new energy age for america and the world . 
sixty-two percent of what powers our vehicles today is imported , that is , two-thirds . 
this is not a sustainable position for the united states , particularly when spot markets in oil are ringing in at over $ 50 , and $ 55 a barrel . 
every family in america is feeling the pain of this . 
so this program will help us move forward millions of vehicles in the public realm that can help us transition to a new age of energy independence . 
i am very sensitive to the gentleman 's time and do not want to impose . 
mr. chairman , i would just say , along with what the gentleman has stated for the record , there are over 140 million cars and 85 million trucks on our highways . 
and today 3 , 300 , 000 of those cars and trucks all already are on our highways running on 85 percent ethanol . 
if we but use our fleets in a wiser way and help transition to these new fuels , we can make a difference in the pockets of every single american and leave a better world to our children . 
today , there are 187 , 000 retail locations in our country from which we purchase our fuels , but only 400 stations across 38 states sell e-85 . 
i want to buy . 
i just said to the head of gm , who came here to washington this week , to the auto caucus event , i said , sir , i want to buy a gm malibu powered by ethanol . 
do you sell it ? 
and even if i bought it , could i go to toledo and buy the fuel ? 
he said , `` i do not think i have that yet. '' i said , `` can you go back to detroit and figure that one out for me ? 
`` i know that the jeep liberty that is rolling off the lines in toledo today has , for the first time in u.s. history , a 5 percent biodiesel blend as original equipment , called b-5 . 
someday we are going to get that up to b-20 , and the farms in ohio that surround the cities that some of us live in are going to provide that fuel . 
and that money is going to be going in their pockets . 
we are going to have a new fuel-based age in this nation . 
i get pretty excited about this , because i have seen the future and it is in ohio , and it is in iowa , and it is in nebraska . 
mr. chairman , it is definitely in texas . 
and we want to be able to use that fuel in a new way . 
so we thank the gentleman for allowing the amendment to be offered , i would hope that we would get favorable consideration by the committee or when we come to the floor for a vote . 
so we would urge consideration and support of the kaptur-kucinich amendment , which is future-oriented , budget-neutral , and helps move america to a new biofuel age . 
mr. chairman , on behalf of the citizens of pascoag , rhode island , who have lived with contaminated water from mbte , i rise in support of the capps amendment . 
i would like to thank my good friend congresswoman capps for fighting to bring this debate to the floor today . 
i have seen firsthand the devastation that the gasoline additive mtbe can have on our local communities . 
in my home state of rhode island , the citizens of pascoag were unable to use their water for months due to this contamination . 
no child should have to turn on the water faucet to have their tap water smell like turpentine . 
but the provision in this bill that seeks to protect mtbe manufacturers is simply yet another one of many that puts the needs of individuals and families below the requests of industry in this dangerous bill . 
i urge my colleagues to take a stand for the forty-five million americans whose water systems have been affected by mtbe contamination and vote to strike this provision from the bill . 
mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent that we extend debate by 2 minutes on both sides . 
mr. chairman , i appreciate the gentleman yielding me time . 
mr. chairman , we had a speaker just a few moments ago who said that we were going to have to give up jobs , taxes and energy security if we had a pipeline that brought gas to florida from out of the country . 
i will tell my colleagues , in rhode island we would welcome the chance to have our gas piped in from some other country because the fact of the matter is , our state knows , as every other state that has an lng facility knows , that if we were to ever have that explode , it would decimate a 50-mile radius . 
we will take our lives over our jobs , over our taxes , over our security . 
let us support the castle amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise today to oppose the boehlert-markey amendment to the energy bill . 
this unnecessary amendment would hurt our already struggling economy . 
it threatens the jobs of workers in flint , bay city , saginaw , and other communities in my congressional district and in my home state of michigan . 
it undermines the hard work of our auto companies and auto workers that is being made through the investment of billions of dollars in alternative fuels and advanced technology vehicles . 
the drastic increases called for in this amendment would have negative consequences for passenger safety and consumer choice . 
the national highway traffic safety administration has increased cafe standards , which is their obligation . 
clearly , the current process , mr. chairman , is working . 
opposing this amendment protects jobs , passenger safety , consumer choice , and advancing auto technology . 
i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to this amendment . 
the national traffic safety administration is the body who sets those standards . 
there are standards . 
they scientifically set those standards . 
and sometimes they raise them . 
it is important that we keep that responsibility with ntsa who does a fine job with that , to set maximum feasible levels for the standards cars and trucks must use . 
i want to read from a good friend here who says , `` such a proposal would dramatically affect the functionality and performance of vans , pickup trucks and sports utility vehicles that consumers in america want. '' and that is by the united states chamber of commerce . 
one in 10 jobs are related to the auto industry . 
fuel economy standards are set scientifically , and this body should not get into that . 
we have standards . 
the american people choose the cars and trucks they want to drive . 
i believe that the standards are set fine . 
and as we go on , the millions of dollars that the industry has put into new development , new cars that are energy efficient we will see as time goes on . 
americans are working and we are winning . 
leave the standards to nhtsa . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time . 
we rise to make this a better amendment . 
if we want epa to do the testing , to make sure that things are right and labeling is correct , then we want to make sure that there is one test to do that . 
what we do not want to do is put additional funds , additional costs , additional measures on the auto industry that is already very fragile . 
so we rise in opposition to the johnson amendment and ask that our amendment be considered because the testing is there . 
we do not need to have two tests , as is required by the johnson amendment . 
it doubles the cost for product , and it allows the competition to be more advanced in our competition war than we are now considering . 
the auto industry in america is fragile . 
we all know that they have invested millions of dollars in their products to make them better , make them fuel efficient , do alternative energy sources . 
we believe that our amendment is a perfecting one ; and , yes , it requires that the epa do the proper tests , not two times but the one time that is required and that the labeling be accurate . 
we hope that our colleagues will support this rogers-kilpatrick amendment . 
it is a much better amendment , and again works with epa to make sure that the labeling is correct with the one test . 
consumers deserve to know that the sticker in their window actually reflects the mileage they will get on the road . 
the epa should revisit their fuel economy standards and the rogers/kilpatrick amendment would require the epa to change the adjustment factors that it currently uses to make the fuel economy label accurate . 
nancy johnson 's amendment requires the epa to change the `` testing procedures '' that auto companies use to determine the fuel economy numbers that go on the dealer label . 
her amendment would require two test auto companies to do one test for labeling and a separate test for cafe . 
johnson 's language doubles the cost to the companies . 
the rogers/kilpatrick amendment deals with the need for improved dealer label accuracy while only requiring one test . 
instead of requiring epa to change the `` testing procedures '' the rogers/kilpatrick amendment requires the epa to change the `` adjustment factors '' that epa currently uses to make the fuel economy label accurate . 
this simple change prevents the auto companies from having to run two separate tests . 
rather the auto companies can run one test that could be used and adjusted with appropriate factors to provide a more accurate fuel economy number . 
the rogers/kilpatrick perfecting amendment to the johnson amendment achieves precisely the same goal that the johnson amendment strives to achieve : accurate fuel economy labels on new cars . 
the only difference is that the rogers/kilpatrick amendment achieves this goal by having epa revise the current test , instead of compelling epa to conduct two separate tests . 
the rogers/kilpatrick perfecting amendment makes clear that the objective is to change the fuel economy label values -- not the test procedures . 
this will ensure that this measure will improve consumer information regarding mileage without imposing an increase in the stringency of cafe or creating a second fuel economy test for consumer labeling . 
the johnson amendment could threaten to increase the stringency of cafe . 
the johnson amendment would require epa to change fuel economy testing for label purposes . 
if the intent of this change is to create a new test for fuel economy labeling then the burden on automakers to test vehicles for both cafe and fuel economy labeling would increase substantially . 
if , however , the intention is to retain only one vehicle fuel economy test , then the test protocol currently used for determining cafe values will also be affected -- lowering the fleet fuel economy averages of manufacturers and making compliance with the cafe standards more stringent . 
depending upon the test procedure changes implemented , the stringency of the cafe standards could increase by 10-20 % ( or up to a 6 mpg increase in the stringency of the cafe requirements ) . 
mr. chairman , i thank my friend from new york for not only offering the amendment , but providing a very important point in this debate , and that is , unfortunately , the underlying bill is not going to work because it lacks one crucial element , and that is vision , the vision to see that we need to pivot off the status quo of the current energy policy and move to a new energy plan that makes sense for a new century . 
the fact of the matter is , and the dirty little secret in this place , those involved in energy policy have to admit it , is that no matter how many incentives we give to the oil companies , how many royalty relief provisions are loaded in this bill , even though the president who comes from the oil industry says that it is not necessary , given the high price of oil , is that we can not produce our way out of the energy challenge that we are facing in this century . 
we are already in a race against china and india for the limited oil supplies that exist throughout the world . 
this amendment provides the vision for us to start pivoting off from our dependence on fossil fuels generally , but the importation of oil more specifically , by providing incentives for alternative and renewable energy sources , incentives for increased energy efficiency and conservation practices and , hopefully , the incentive to move to a new energy source for a new century , and that is fuel cell development . 
i would encourage my colleagues to adopt this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of this amendment to make this junk food energy bill just a little bit healthier . 
members , help me with this quote : `` i tell you , with $ 50 oil , we do not need incentives to oil and gas companies . 
there are plenty of incentives. '' no , this was not some liberal , left-wing environmental activist . 
you are right , it was the president of the united states , who comes from the oil industry , that recognizes that the oil companies are awash with profits . 
during president bush 's 2000 presidential campaign , he railed against the so-called royalty holiday saying that it was , and i quote , `` giving major oil companies a huge tax break. '' agree with the president of the united states , agree with us , accept this amendment . 
section 2005 waives federal royalty collections from offshore oil and gas production on the outer continental shelf . 
added to the rest of title 20 , this will put $ 483 million of taxpayer money into the already deep pockets of big oil during a time in which they are reaping record profits . 
in fact , an april 8 , 2005 wall street journal article relates the news that exxon mobile recently reported a fourth-quarter profit that amounted to the fattest quarterly take for a publicly traded u.s. company ever : $ 8.4 billion . 
do big oil companies like exxon really need taxpayer-provided `` incentives '' to explore and drill ? 
president bush does n't think so . 
in addition , the oil royalties the federal government does not collect from big oil will starve the land and water conservation fund of critical financial resources . 
the land and water conservation fund provides special protection for some of our most precious wildlands and has been a valuable tool for nearly 40 years . 
a portion of revenues from oil royalties is dedicated to this special fund for acquisition and conservation of natural places and habitat . 
without these oil royalty revenues , state environmental protection efforts will suffer . 
in a time of serious budget deficits , immense war costs and a sluggish economy , we can not afford to grant such outlandish subsidies to some of our nation 's largest corporations . 
i urge my colleagues support the grijalva amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the energy policy act . 
the bill before us today , full of the same objectionable policies , such as providing liability protections for mtbe makers and taxpayer-funded largesse for the big fossil fuels industries , reminds me of the proverb provided by saint bonaventure who said , `` the higher the monkey climbs , the more you see of it 's behind. '' mr. speaker , this ugly bill has repeatedly scaled the tree and the view has n't improved any . 
i believe the american people expect more from their elected representatives than to simply rehash an energy bill whose flaws have been exposed and it 's economic and environmental price tags too high to pay . 
yet , once again , the majority refused to work in a bipartisan fashion to craft a balanced and sensible energy bill that meets america 's needs . 
every day , millions of american families struggle to keep up with soaring energy costs . 
motorists see soaring prices at the pump . 
farmers working to provide a secure future for their children watch as their operating margins are squeezed even further . 
and all too many low-income and elderly americans are being forced to decide between adequately heating and cooling their homes or purchasing the food and medicines they need . 
the american people understand that we face both a short and a long-term energy crisis and that we must develop a comprehensive and balanced plan for our nation -- a plan that finds 21st century solutions to deal with our 21st century energy needs . 
a bill that directs needed resources to renewable energy sources and efficiency programs . 
it is unfortunate that the best the majority believes we can do is pass a bill better suited to the start of the industrialization era . 
the bill , inexplicably , provides little to promote renewable energy sources or reduce energy use . 
instead , it funnels ever more tax benefits to energy companies already making huge profits from high energy prices . 
in fact , an april 19 , 2005 wall street journal article relates the news that exxon mobile recently reported a fourth-quarter profit that amounted to the fattest quarterly take for publicly traded u.s. company ever : $ 8.4 billion . 
of the $ 8 billion in tax incentives , less than $ 500 million would go to promote renewable energy sources or foster efficiency and conservation programs . 
after sticking it to the consumers at the pump , do big oil companies like exxon really need taxpayer-provided `` incentives '' ? 
president bush does n't think so . 
in a recent interview , president bush said , `` i will tell you ; with $ 55 oil we do n't need incentives to oil and gas companies . 
there are plenty of incentives. '' i agree . 
the few bright-spots of the bill : like tripling the amount of gasoline sold that contains enthanol by 2012 ; promoting safe and clean nuclear energy ; developing the liquified natural gas infrastructure needed in our country ; ensuring electric reliability and easing transmission -- all have been overshadowed by the bloated excess and taxpayer-funded subsidies for some of our nation 's largest oil and gas companies . 
mr. chairman , there are unfortunately many more very bad provisions for american taxpayers in h.r. 6 , and title 20 in particular -- much of which is premised on a `drill at taxpayers ' expense approach to the management of energy resources on public lands . 
perhaps the best example is the issue of drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge . 
as my colleagues know , the arctic national wildlife refuge was set aside over 40 years ago by republican president dwight d. eisenhower for the clear and express purpose of protecting its remarkable wilderness and wildlife values . 
i , like a majority of americans , oppose developing one of our nation 's last remaining pristine areas for a short term energy fix . 
and there are other provisions that , standing alone , make this a bad bill : such as the `` royalties in kind '' provision ; granting broad authority to the secretary of the department of the interior for permitting alternative energy-related uses on the outer continental shelf ; and reimbursing oil and gas companies for doing the environmental impact studies that are required under law . 
i know there are a number of my colleagues who are anxious to speak on some of these provisions , so i welcome their comments and lend my support to their wise concerns . 
one of the most egregious provisions of this bill is what is being called `` royalty relief '' for some of our nation 's largest oil companies . 
this provision waives federal royalty collections on huge amounts of publicly owned lands . 
simply put , title 20 will put billions of dollars of taxpayer money into the already deep pockets of big oil . 
the amendment offered by my friend from arizona , mr. grijalva , would strike section 2005 and restore the collection of royalty payments to the treasury for offshore oil and gas production on the outer continental shelf -- a measure i helped lead last year and one that i strongly urge my colleagues ' support . 
and buried deep in this bill , under the title named `` miscellaneous '' there is another provision that could have major consequences for communities struggling to clean up their dirty air . 
this provision allows cities and towns whose air pollution comes from hundreds of miles away to delay meeting national air quality standards until their offending neighbors clean up their own air . 
in considering the most significant change in the clean air act in 15 years , i must note the irony that we are just days away from celebrating the 35th anniversary of earth day . 
earth day , begun by wisconsin 's own senator gaylord nelson , provided the impetus to president nixon signing the clean air act . 
in addition , the majority party has stuck in the bill a provision that would limit the ability of coastal states to challenge offshore oil and natural gas production . 
apparently , the majority party in congress no longer has much regard for the 10th amendment . 
so that is the back-side of our monkey . 
i urge my colleagues to join me in opposing this energy bill that does little to lessen our dependence on fossil fuels -- or the fossil fuels ' industry dependence on taxpayer dollars . 
mr. chairman , i thank the ranking member for yielding me this time , and i commend him and the chairman of the subcommittee for producing a very good appropriation bill . 
i echo the sentiments that the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 just gave on the floor and appreciate the hard work that has gone into it . 
i think the rule , however , could have been a little stronger if the schwartz amendment would have been made in order so we could have had further discussion about the need for increased investment in alternative and renewable energy technologies . 
i do not think that the energy bill that is working its way through congress goes far enough , and this was another appropriation measure that could have been a vehicle for that increased investment . 
i do appreciate the work that is being done on the yucca mountain funding , however . 
we have two nuclear facilities that are storing a lot of nuclear waste in the upper mississippi river region right now . 
many of us feel it makes sense to have a single , isolated nuclear waste repository in this country , and the studies that have gone into yucca mountain and the funding that this committee is providing , it seems to me to be a reasonable and practical approach dealing with the nuclear waste issue . 
i especially want to commend the committee for the full support they have given to a very important program for the upper mississippi river basin , the environmental management program . 
this was a program that was created in the mid-1980s to strike balance on the multiple uses of the mississippi region in the upper states . 
it is a multiple-use resource . 
it is incredibly valuable economically , quality of life , recreation and tourism . 
we have commercial navigation that uses the upper mississippi along with the important recreation and tourism aspect , and the environmental management program really has a twofold mission . 
one is habitat restoration for the upper mississippi basin and the other is long term resource monitoring , to monitor the effects that sediment and nutrients are having in the basin . 
one of the first things i did as a new member of congress was help form a bipartisan mississippi river caucus so we could work together from both the north and the south in order to draw attention to the resources that are needed along the mississippi river . 
we have made substantial progress , and i commend the committee 's recognition that full funding of the emp is appropriate at $ 33 million . 
this is a program that has received wide bipartisan support , multi-state support . 
the five upper states of the mississippi river basin have been fully supportive of this program , as have the governors and the respective legislatures , and i commend the administration who has consistently submitted their budget requests calling for full funding of the environmental management program . 
finally , mr. chairman , i would commend to my colleagues and include for the record an article that just appeared in the washington post sunday edition under the travel section called `` lolling on the river. '' it describes the quality of life and unique beauty that the upper mississippi river basin has for all of us in that region . 
in it the author of the article , bill o'brian writes : `` the mississippi , the river of mark twain , who once wrote , `it is not a commonplace river , but on the contrary is in all ways remarkable. ' the river of lasalle , marquette and joliet , of b.b . 
king , bob dylan and the doobie brothers . 
of faulkner , fitzgerald and t.s. eliot . 
of historian stephen ambrose who not long ago wrote , `the river is in my blood . 
wherever , whenever , it is a source of delight . 
more , it is the river that draws us together as a nation. ' `` emp is a small part of the importance of this great natural resource which is of vital importance to our nation . 
i commend the subcommittee and work they have done in recognizing by fully funding emp the importance of this vital natural resource . 
lolling on the river : following the upper mississippi by land if you think the prairie of wisconsin and minnesota is nothing but nondescript flatlands and farms , buena vista park in alma , wis. , is the place for you . 
specifically , the bluff in the park more than 500 feet above the mississippi river , which forms the border of the two states . 
from that bluff on a clear day , you can see one of the most awe-inspiring panoramas in all of north america . 
i 've been to the grand canyon . 
to yellowstone . 
to jackson hole . 
to lake louise . 
to niagara falls . 
to the oregon , maine , carolina and california coasts . 
to the interior of alaska . 
to the top of numerous skyscrapers . 
the vista from the bluff in alma on a clear day can compete with any of those places . 
from that precipice , you can see for miles into the minnesota countryside below . 
you can gaze upon the lush greenery of the dorer memorial hardwood state forest and the dark , rich soil of the northern portion of what schoolbooks call the breadbasket of america . 
as the mississippi zigzags through that bottomland , you can see that the waterway is as unruly as it is majestic , as undisciplined as it is immense . 
it is clear that , left to its own devices , the river would follow no laws other than those of physics , which state that water flows from higher elevation to lower via the path of least resistance . 
from that bluff in alma , you can immediately understand what wisconsin outdoors journalist mel ellis meant half a century ago when he wrote , `` if you have n't fished ol ' man mississipp , forget about any preconceived notions you may have as far as rivers are concerned . 
because ol ' man river is n't a river at all . 
in fact , he 's a hundred rivers and a thousand lakes and more sloughs than you could explore in a lifetime. '' northeasterners by birth and temperament , my wife , sue , and i knew almost nothing firsthand about life along the upper mississippi . 
the mississippi -- the river of mark twain , who once wrote , `` it is not a commonplace river , but on the contrary is in all ways remarkable , '' the river of la salle , marquette and joliet . 
of b.b . 
king , bob dylan and the doobie brothers . 
of faulkner , fitzgerald and t.s. eliot . 
of historian stephen ambrose , who not long ago wrote , `` the river is in my blood . 
wherever , whenever , it is a source of delight . 
more , it is the river that draws us together as a nation. '' so , from the point just outside east dubuque , ill. , where the illinois-wisconsin border meets the mississippi about 175 miles west of chicago , sue and i had set out northward on the great river road to see what -- and whom -- we might find . 
the river road is a federally designated scenic byway that stretches from the gulf of mexico to canada . 
we covered a minuscule portion of it , a couple of hundred miles mostly in southwestern wisconsin , primarily along state route 35 . 
we had no itinerary per se . 
we pulled off the road when the spirit , or hunger or curiosity , moved us . 
it was a drive-by -- a lazy , three-day upper mississippi river drive-by . 
on the first day , at a boat landing near the town of cassville , wis. , we stopped to chat with dwayne durant , a fortysomething iowan . 
dressed in camouflage hunting gear , he was standing on the riverbank in the upper mississippi river national wildlife and fish refuge with his dog , sidney . 
durant had the satisfied countenance of a man who 'd just bagged his limit for the day . 
he welcomed us to the river , patiently explained the intricacies and the appeal of duck hunting , proudly showed us his fresh kill ( two wood ducks , two teal ducks and two mallards ) , then humbly thanked us for visiting his corner of the world . 
the next morning , at withey 's bar in lynxville , wis . 
( pop . 
176 ) , we introduced ourselves to a soft-spoken gentleman in a flannel shirt sitting on a stool at the end of the bar . 
les neefe told us that he was born 77 years ago in a wisconsin cheese factory ( `` not in a hospital , not in the hallway of the cheese factory , in the cheese factory . 
. 
. 
in a room above the boiler '' ) . 
over coffee , neefe rhapsodized about the pleasures of living in a houseboat docked on the mississippi six months a year , and he made two recommendations . 
first , he suggested that , to get a real taste of wisconsin , we should go to the cheese shop up the road in ferryville and buy some `` sharp cheddar , old sharp cheddar. '' then , to get a real taste of river life , we should stop by p & amp ; m concessions next to blackhawk park in de soto . 
we did both . 
the cheese , a nine-year cheddar , was rich , creamy and sharper than sharp . 
along with apples and crackers , a block of the cheddar made a memorable watchin'-the-river-flow picnic lunch . 
outside the p & amp ; m concessions stand was a sign that read , `` welcome to the river -- sit long , talk much , fish a lot. '' behind the counter was 34-year-old amy kroning , whose father is the proprietor of the bait/tackle/refreshment/boat rental shop . 
`` i ca n't think of anywhere i 'd rather be than right here , '' said kroning , a mother of five who was born and raised in de soto . 
`` if i get more than an hour from the river , i get depressed . 
really . 
i 'm not kidding . 
we go to a cubs game once a year [ in chicago ] , and i 'm a nervous wreck the whole time. '' so , what is the allure of the mississippi ? 
`` it has a calming affect . 
it 's relaxing , '' verdetta tusa said later that day as we stood watching for more than an hour while an enormous tow barge squeezed , wheezed and creaked its way through the lock at the town of genoa , wis . 
`` it 's the history , too , '' said the 56-year-old lifelong minnesotan . 
`` they 've been doing it this way , basically , from the beginning. '' the lock at genoa is one of 29 on the upper mississippi . 
watching tow barges come out of the sharp curves of the river and negotiate the locks with pinpoint precision is a pastime unto itself . 
typically 15 barges are connected together in front of one pilot boat . 
they transport grain , steel , road salt , fertilizer , coal , petroleum products and other nonperishable goods up and down the mississippi most of the year . 
it takes a barge about 10 days to get from minneapolis to st . 
louis , but one 15-unit tow can carry as much grain as 225 rail cars or 870 semi-trucks at a fraction of the cost . 
as a barge passes through a lock , you can get close enough to chat with the stevedores on board . 
one deckhand told us that sometimes he stays out on the river for 60 to 80 days at a time . 
and that he 'd rather toil on the upper mississippi than on the lower , especially in the dead of summer , because down near new orleans and memphis , `` it 's too hot , and the skeeters are bigger than i am. '' an hour north of genoa on state route 35 , not far past la crosse , wis. , we came to perrot state park , a verdant 1 , 400-acre refuge . 
there , an information marker on a small bluff overlooking braided channels of the river reminded us just how remarkable the mississippi is . 
it 's 2 , 350 miles long ; it 's home to 100 species of fish ( most notably walleye , sturgeon and catfish in these parts ) ; it drains all or part of 31 states and two canadian provinces . 
`` from red wing down to iowa is the most beautiful part of the river , with all the bluffs and trees . 
it 's almost a fantasyland , '' said bob schleicher . 
`` it 's a place of mystery . 
it 's got so much folklore . 
some of it 's true ; some of it 's not. '' we met schleicher , a 65-year-old retired car salesman , at the municipal marina in red wing , minn. , the final town on our river drive , directly across the bridge from hager city , wis . 
captain bob , as he likes to call himself , told us that he has navigated the mississippi from st . 
paul , minn. , to its mouth in louisiana . 
he explained that part of the appeal is that `` you can be whoever you want to be on the river. '' he told tales of river-running bootleggers , past and present . 
he explained how the upper mississippi differs from the lower -- it is less crowded ; it has more islands , beaches and marinas ; its currents are less dangerous ; its water is less sandy . 
but , he said with a smile , river people have a `` mutual bond , whether you 're a confederate or a yankee. '' schleicher talked for a while about the river 's importance to birds . 
forty percent of all north american waterfowl and 326 bird species -- including hawks , eagles , falcons , herons and swans -- use the river as a flyway , according to the audubon society . 
we had seen a handful of bald eagles soaring over or perched along the river , and schleicher beamed as he spoke of the resurgence of that ornithological american icon on the bluffs near red wing . 
then he suggested that , after spending a couple days driving along the river , sue and i might want to spend some time on the river . 
for $ 10 apiece , he offered to take us on a leisurely two-hour cruise in his old military flatboat-turned-riverboat . 
once we cleared the dock , schleicher allowed each of us in the small group on board to take a turn piloting the boat for a few minutes . 
as i stood at the helm , guiding the boat around the river 's trademark sweeping bends , minding the red and green buoys that mark the shipping channel , passing huge tow barges , i suddenly understood what schleicher meant when he said you can be who you want to be on the river . 
at that moment , as we glided past the tree-lined banks , pushed along by the gentle current , the serenity was overwhelming . 
and the history palpable . 
at that moment , i was every riverman who 's ever skippered a slow boat on ol ' man mississipp . 
mr. chairman , i am concerned this bill will not clear the budget responsibility . 
h.r. 6 technically does not violate the budget act because it is an unreported bill , and budget act points of order generally only apply to reported bills . 
the bill generally is inconsistent with the 302 ( a ) allocations for both the 2005 and house-passed 2006 budget resolutions . 
section 2053 of the bill does , however , create a new entitlement program outside the budget window ( specifically , fy 2016 ) . 
it uses a portion of outer-continental receipts to fund new mandatory state-run conservation , education , and infrastructure programs . 
estimates indicate that the annual cost of this provision could be in the range of $ 1.75 billion . 
if h.r. 6 were a reported bill , such a provision might subject the bill to a section 303 point of order . 
we just passed a budget only after clarifying a point of order would defeat any appropriations bill over budget . 
it appears that we have to expand this point to protect against bills like this . 
mr. chairman , i believe that this amendment actually saves american lives . 
mr. chairman , there is no better way to look at this issue than through the eyes of a young soldier stationed in the middle east . 
one of the reasons why we pay so much attention to the persian gulf is that the economy of the west is totally dependent on oil from this region . 
we must station forces there to make sure that nothing happens to our supply of energy . 
and nothing can change this situation right now . 
but this amendment can change this situation for the future . 
by adopting cafe standards , we will make the persian gulf much less important . 
we will reduce the need to ever deploy young americans into harm 's way . 
look into the eyes of a 10-year-old american and think of him or her , and vote for policies which will make it much less likely that any president would ever ask them to return to harm 's way in the persian gulf . 
madam chairman , i have the greatest respect for the gentleman from alaska ( mr. young ) xz4004401 , and i simply have a difference of opinion with him on this despite that great respect . 
in what has become a congressional ritual , the prospect of drilling in the arctic has been repeatedly struck down in recognition of the fact that american working families do not want it . 
still , we have proponents telling us that drilling is good for jobs . 
some of the nation 's largest unions , i might point out , like the seiu , united auto workers , united steelworkers , and united farm workers , are on record opposing drilling in the arctic refuge . 
why ? 
because it is bad labor policy . 
oil production is one of the least labor-intensive industries , supporting fewer than three direct jobs per $ 1 million of investment . 
energy efficiency supports 27 jobs for the same investment . 
it is also bad economic policy . 
one dollar spent on petroleum production creates only $ 1.51 in economic value . 
but that same dollar , when invested in energy efficiency , creates $ 2.23 in economic value . 
our nation 's energy policy should not include drilling in the arctic . 
i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
mr. chairman , i want to concur with the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak ) xz4003910 who spoke in favor of a federal ban on drilling for oil or gas in the great lakes . 
i represent cleveland , ohio , which is a city proud to be part of the great lakes community . 
we in cleveland understand that the great lakes contain 20 percent of the earth 's fresh water surface and supplies drinking water for over 40 million people . 
this is not a matter that any state can choose to go along with or against . 
this is clearly an area for federal policy . 
we need a federal policy which says the people of the united states have a right to clean drinking water . 
water is the oil of the 21st century and we are here acting as though it is not the basis of life on our planet . 
the risks of drilling are clear . 
because the geologic formations under lake erie are low producing , the oil and gas industry would require over 4 , 200 wells to access the full resource . 
in canada , where they permitted drilling , an average of almost one spill per month has been documented . 
now , the industry wants to use directional drilling to create new risks . 
geologists have noted that leaks will follow the drilling shaft down into the groundwater which flows right into lake erie . 
this amendment , the markey-bishop amendment , is a common-sense way to meet our energy needs , conservation , energy and renewables , and it is also a common-sense way to protect the great water resource we have . 
why should we even be contesting this ? 
why would any state want to take the responsibility of drilling in the great lakes and thus poisoning the well for the rest of america ? 
this is federal policy . 
we have a right to clean water . 
support this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i enter my statement in the record in support of the solis amendment . 
mr. chairman , no one wants an oil refinery in their neighborhood . 
so in order to force one open , this bill encourages them to be established in neighborhoods with high unemployment or recent layoffs . 
the university of texas and the houston chronicle studied the air near refineries in the houston area . 
the paper wrote that they `` found the air ... .. 
so laden with toxic chemicals that it was dangerous to breathe. '' houston is not alone . 
multiple penalties of hundreds of thousands of dollars for environmental violations have been handed to refineries so far this year . 
and we surely have not forgotten last month 's bp refinery explosion that killed 15 people . 
let 's employ the unemployed but not at the expense of their families ' health and well-being . 
that is kicking them when they 're down . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i want to express my appreciation to the chair for accepting the modification and my appreciation to the gentlewoman from ohio ( ms. kaptur ) xz4002110 , who i have worked with on this amendment that would double the number of department of energy clean city programs that could apply for a pilot program to invest in alternative fuel vehicles . 
by amending section 722 , the amendment would increase the number of project grants from 15 to 30 for state governments , local governments , and metropolitan transportation authorities . 
now , we are offering this amendment because we believe that farmers and our urban centers can work together to eliminate our dependency on oil . 
farmers grow biomass feedstocks that can be processed locally to supply nearby cities such as cleveland and toledo . 
mr. chairman , i yield such time as she may consume to the gentlewoman from toledo , ohio ( ms. kaptur ) xz4002110 , with whom i have had the privilege of working on this amendment . 
well , the gentlewoman has made it possible for me to help and offer this amendment . 
we can grow our way out of our energy crisis ; and farmers growing biomass feedstocks that can be processed locally to supply , in our case , nearby cities such as cleveland and toledo can help us do that . 
they will benefit with new and more stable markets ; our fuel supply is home grown , thus reducing our dependence on foreign oil ; fuel prices are reduced ; and the air we breathe is cleaner . 
i yield to the gentlewoman . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of the israel amendment . 
in cleveland , ohio , my district , people do not understand why prices vary from street to street . 
they can drive around and see a gas station will have $ 2.25 and a couple blocks later it will be $ 2.35 . 
the gentleman 's study is so important because it will provide some insight into pricing , into how the market is set up ; and the small and independent gas station owners who are getting squeezed in the market are going to have their cause elevated . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , this is a noncontroversial amendment which authorizes a national academy of science study on the feasibility of mustard seed as a feedstock for biodiesel . 
now , mustard seed has many advantages over other feedstocks , including higher oil content , it is easier to grow in colder and drier climates of the u.s. , and the conversion process leaves behind an organic pesticide and herbicide . 
initial research studies by the university of idaho and the national renewable energy laboratory have shown favorable results . 
now , mr. chairman , mustard seed has roots deep in all cultures , and it is specifically mentioned in the bible . 
i want to read you a passage from mark which will show the recognition of mustard seed as a crop that deserves recognition here . 
mark , in the fourth chapter , talks about the kingdom of heaven , and says : `` it is like a mustard seed , which when sewn in the earth is less than all the seeds that be in the earth . 
but when it is sewn , it groweth up and becometh greater than all the other herbs and shooteth out great branches. '' so something that was understood in the intelligence of the world thousands of years ago needs once again to be recognized , because what we have here is a crop that gives a great potential . 
and we know that farmers are key to eliminating our dependency on foreign oil and that we can grow our way out of this energy crisis . 
that is one of the reasons i am offering this . 
mark is not the only place where mustard seed is mentioned . 
we are told that if we have faith as a grain of mustard seed , we can move mountains . 
well , this is an opportunity for us to show not only faith in the good will of this house to help america take an important step towards sustainable energy , but also faith in alternative energy and faith in our own nation . 
i think that we can take this opportunity to give farmers a chance for growing options for biomass feedstocks . 
it is imperative that we find those feedstocks that will eliminate our dependency on foreign oil as soon as possible . 
so , again , to the chairman , this is a noncontroversial amendment . 
it would authorize the national academy of sciences to study the feasibility of mustard seed as a feedstock , and i would certainly appreciate the support of the committee and of the house . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act . 
i believe every member in this chamber agrees that our country faces a potential energy crisis if we do not act quickly to establish a new national energy policy . 
we need to make major investments in energy self-reliance , infrastructure , and new technologies . 
however , where we differ is on how best to achieve those goals . 
when i look at the provisions of this bill , i do not see a clear vision for america 's future . 
instead , i see a policy that promises more of the same and that does not end our nations ' dependence on foreign oil . 
it astonishes me that the nation that mobilized to put an american on the moon is not leading the world in developing new , clean and renewable energy sources . 
such an effort would revitalize our economy , improve our environment , and strengthen our national security . 
however , this mission can be successful only with the leadership of congress and the president , and i regret that we have not pursued that goal here today . 
instead , this bill clings to the incorrect assumption that our nation can drill and dig its way to energy independence . 
although transportation is the largest source of oil consumption in the nation , h.r. 6 authorizes drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge rather than making modest improvements to automobile fuel efficiency standards . 
instead of investing in renewable energy sources , 93 percent of its $ 8.1 billion in energy production tax incentives are targeted toward gas , oil , and other non-renewable sources . 
the measure also includes some very disturbing provisions that can damage the health and safety of our citizens . 
h.r. 6 includes a liability exemption for manufacturers of mtbe , the fuel additive that has contaminated the groundwater of communities throughout the nation , including in pascoag , rhode island . 
it also strips states of their ability to provide for the safety of their citizens by granting the federal energy regulatory commission almost unlimited authority in siting new liquefied natural gas facilities . 
a recent study by the department of energy noted a deliberate attack on a lng tanker could result in a deadly fire reaching as far as a mile away . 
nevertheless , ferc is considering an application for a lng facility in providence , in proximity to interstate 95 , schools , neighborhoods , and rhode island hospital , the only level trauma center in the state . 
a broad , last week , right before the april 15th tax filing deadline , this congress passed an estate tax bill that benefited only the wealthiest one-third of one percent of americans while adding massive debt to burden future generations . 
today , the day before earth day , we are considering an energy bill that provides massive tax breaks to the oil and gas industry instead of investing in cleaner renewable sources and energy efficiency . 
again , congress has identified a problem and responded in a fashion contrary to the long-term interests of our nation . 
i am deeply disappointed in this measure and urge my colleagues to vote against it so that we can refocus our efforts on an energy policy for america 's future . 
madam chairman , first , let me just say , i want to thank the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey ) xz4002530 for yielding me the time , for his leadership and the gentlewoman from connecticut ( mrs. johnson ) xz4002051 for her leadership in making sure that this is a bipartisan amendment . 
opening up the arctic national wildlife refuge to oil and gas drilling is not the answer to our long-term energy or security needs . 
the fact is , we are addicted to oil . 
the proponents of this bill would have you believe that the only way to cure an addict is to feed the addiction at whatever cost , regardless of the effect on the environment , on our wildlife , and on our public health . 
as a psychiatric social worker by profession , i can tell you this does not work . 
we should be working to reduce our dependency by promoting energy efficiency and energy conservation , and funding research to develop and utilize clean and renewable sources of energy . 
by allowing drilling in the arctic refuge , we are spoiling a pristine natural environment , we are furthering our dependence on oil , and we are contributing to high levels of asthma , such as in my own district in west oakland and throughout the country . 
reducing dependencies on alcohol and on drugs leads to individuals leading clean and sober lives . 
our country needs to reduce its dependency on oil , for a clean and sober and independent future is what our children deserve . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of this bill . 
i would first like to thank the chairman of the subcommittee , mr. hobson , and the ranking member , mr. visclosky , for their work in putting together the energy and water appropriations bill . 
i also want to thank both of them for including $ 48 million in the bill to continue funding the port of oakland 's 50-foot dredging project in my district in california . 
as the fourth largest container port in the country , the port of oakland serves as one of our premier international trade gateways to asia and the pacific . 
the 50-foot dredging project will underpin an $ 800 million expansion project funded by the port that will improve infrastructure , expand capacity and increase efficiencies throughout the distribution chain . 
once this project is finished , an additional 8 , 800 jobs will be added , business revenue will increase by $ 1.9 billion , and local tax revenues will go up by $ 55.5 million . 
best of all , 100 percent of the dredged materials will be reused for wetlands restoration , habitat enhancement , and upland use within the san francisco bay area . 
i appreciate the subcommittee 's support for this project and i look forward to continuing to work with the chairman and ranking member to complete it . 
madam chairman , if ever there was a time when this country needed a smart , forward-looking energy strategy , this is it . 
energy prices throughout the country are close to record highs . 
consumers in my state are struggling with soaring gasoline costs . 
the price of gasoline in michigan today is 36 cents a gallon higher than it was just 1 year ago . 
steep increases in the price of natural gas have resulted in skyrocketing increases in consumers ' home heating bills over the past few winters . 
so what is the response of the house of representatives ? 
the leadership of the house has brought a bill to the floor that will do little or nothing to reign in energy prices . 
this is virtually the same bill that the senate rejected 2 years ago . 
according to the bush administration 's own energy information administration , the policies contained in this legislation will have a negligible effect on energy production , consumption , imports and prices . 
instead of bringing us a comprehensive energy bill that brings down gas prices and encourages greater u.s. energy independence , the bill before the house is little more than a grab-bag of special interest giveaways . 
for example , the tax title of this legislation contains just over $ 8 billion worth of tax incentives . 
only about 6 percent of these go to energy efficiency , renewable energy or conservation . 
nearly all of the $ 8 billion goes to the oil , gas and nuclear industries , as well as electric utilities . 
with oil and gas prices -- to say nothing of energy industry profits -- near record levels , why are we extending these additional subsidies ? 
just the other day , president bush said that `` with $ 55 oil we do n't need incentives to oil and gas companies to explore . 
there are plenty of incentives. '' yet this bill is chock-full of these unneeded incentives . 
there 's $ 3.3 billion in oil and gas production tax incentives , plus a number of `` royalty holiday '' provisions for energy extraction on public lands . 
it 's easy to see how this legislation is good for the bottom lines of oil and gas companies , but it 's consumers that need our help today . 
i know that the proponents of this legislation have been saying that opening up the arctic wildlife refuge to oil drilling will help bring down gas prices . 
this simply is not the case . 
we have no idea how much oil lies beneath the refuge . 
the new york times reported in february that the `` major oil companies are largely uninterested in drilling in the refuge , skeptical about the potential there . 
`` even the plan 's most optimistic backers agree that any oil from the refuge would meet only a tiny fraction of america 's needs. '' the crusade to drill in the refuge is a distraction . 
even if there is extractable oil there , it would take nearly a decade to bring the energy to market . 
this country badly needs a balanced energy policy . 
we ca n't drill our way to energy security . 
we need a balance between energy production , on the one hand , and greater use of renewable sources of energy and conservation on the other . 
the bill before the house today does n't even pretend to seek balance , and i urge my colleagues to reject it . 
madam chairman , i thank the gentleman from california ( mr. stark ) xz4003870 for yielding me time . 
madam chairman , gas prices are going up every single day , and this bill does nothing to bring down the costs at the pump . 
in fact , it might just make the problem worse . 
the energy czars must be the majority leader and company , and they wrote this bill behind closed doors . 
this bill is immoral . 
it is a shame and it is a disgrace . 
this bill was conceived in darkness and born in a den of iniquity . 
this bill does not do one thing to bring down the price of gasoline at the pump . 
we can do better . 
we can do much better . 
we should vote against this bill . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 6 . 
the people of our nation need an energy policy . 
we need to pass an energy policy that actually brings down record high gas prices , protects our environment , and truly reduces our dependence on foreign oil by encouraging energy efficiency and the use of renewable sources of energy . 
instead , at a time of record gas prices , this special-interest , anti-consumer energy bill would actually increase gas prices . 
the national average price for gasoline remains at a record level of $ 2.24 per gallon . 
and yet , according to the bush administration 's own energy department , the republican bill will actually increase gas prices by 3 cents and will have almost no effect on production , consumption , or prices , as if raising gas prices were not bad enough , h.r. 6 also harms our environment . 
it rolls back important safeguards in the clean water act and the safe drinking water act , which are critical in keeping our waterways clean and safe . 
protecting the producers of mtbe from paying for polluting our drinking water , h.r. 6 actually passes the cost of cleaning up the industry 's mess to taxpayers . 
finally , it opens the arctic national wildlife refuge , one of our nation 's greatest natural treasures , to drilling by the oil and gas industries . 
at this time in history , it is crucial that we work to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by prioritizing energy efficiency and renewable energy . 
of all the tax incentives in h.r. 6 , only 7 percent are designated to encourage renewable energy and conservation , while billions of dollars in tax breaks are funneled to the oil and gas industries . 
on top of these tax breaks , provisions in this bill would provide as much as $ 2 billion over ten years to companies who drill in the deep waters off the gulf of mexico . 
instead of increasing corporate giveaways at a time when oil and gas companies are raking in record profits , we must redouble our efforts to support renewable energy and conservation . 
mr. chairman , because h.r. 6 would increase gas prices , harm our environment , and do so little to encourage renewable energy sources , i oppose this legislation and urge my colleagues to do the same . 
mr. chairman , this is truly a bad bill . 
every day we have pictures on the screen of consumers pulling up to the gas pump , paying an arm and a leg for gasoline . 
we have 150 , 000 young men and women over in the middle east protecting our country in that region , and largely as well the oil supplies coming into our country . 
this bill does nothing in order to deal with that problem . 
in fact , the department of energy analysis of an almost identical bill in the last congress concluded that changes to production , consumption , imports , and prices are negligible . 
the bill would open the pristine arctic national wildlife refugee to oil and natural gas exploration even though there is such a small supply of oil and gas there that most of the oil companies have pulled out of the coalition trying to open it to drilling . 
this bill contains a liability waiver for the big oil companies that would force cities and states to spend billions to clean up drinking water supplies that have been contaminated with the gasoline additive mtbe which is known to cause cancer . 
this bill tramples on the right of state and local governments to protect their citizens from potentially dangerous energy facilities such as large liquefied natural gas terminals that would be sited right in the middle of densely populated cities in our country , even though we know they would be the number one terrorist target constructed in that city . 
this bill allows oil and gas companies to pollute drinking water by granting them special exemptions from the clean water act . 
this bill allows refineries and utilities to increase air pollution with special exemptions from the clean air act . 
there is a special provision in this bill to protect halliburton from ever facing any federal regulation of a practice of drilling for oil using the hydraulic fracturing technique that actually injects diesel fuel into the water supply . 
there is a special provision added that authorizes grants and other assistance to something called the dine power authority , an enterprise of the navaho nation . 
who are the beneficiaries of that provision ? 
why do they deserve our largess ? 
we never had a hearing on it . 
there is a special provision in the bill that provides a $ 1.3 billion subsidy to the idaho national laboratory to build a special advance nuclear reactor to produce hydrogen for the hydrogen car . 
bad bill ; vote `` no. '' mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 6 . 
i have the greatest respect and affection for the chairman of the committee , the distinguished gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) , but i must say in all honesty that this is really a terrible energy bill . 
the chairman comes from texas , and i 'm sure that from a lone star state perspective , this looks like a pretty good bill . 
but most of our constituents do n't come from oil producing states . 
most of our constituents are energy consumers , and from a consumer perspective this bill is seriously deficient . 
in fact , i would suggest that this bill is a bit like that old clint eastwood spaghetti western : `` the good , the bad and the ugly. '' there is a tiny bit of good in the bill -- like extending daylight saving time by a month in the spring and a month in the fall . 
now , that was a good idea , it really was -- and i 'm glad that the gentleman from michigan ( mr. upton ) and i were able to get it in the bill . 
but in all honesty i think i have to say that for the most part , what we have here before us today is one truly bad and ugly bill : first , let 's take a look at the bad : this bill does virtually nothing to address the current spike in crude oil prices or the price of gasoline at the pump . 
in fact , a department of energy analysis of an almost identical bill in the last congress concluded that `` changes to production , consumption , imports and prices are negligible. '' this bill would open the pristine arctic national wildlife refuge to oil and natural gas exploration , even though there is such a small supply of oil and gas there that most of the oil companies have pulled out of the coalition trying to open it to drilling . 
this bill contains a liability waiver for the big oil companies that would force cities and states to spend billions to clean up drinking water supplies that have been contaminated with the gasoline additive mtbe , which is known to cause cancer . 
this bill tramples on the right of state and local governments to protect their citizens from potentially dangerous energy facilities , such as large liquefied natural gas ( lng ) terminals sited right in the middle of densely populated urban areas . 
this bill allows oil and gas companies to pollute drinking water by granting them special exemptions from the clean water act . 
this bill allows refineries and utilities to increase air pollution with special exemptions from the clean air act . 
this bill gives utilities who dam the public 's waterways special rights to appeal and change conditions federal resource agencies placed on their hydropower license in order to protect fish , the environmental , irrigation , navigation or other public uses of our nation 's rivers . 
this bill repeals the public utility holding company act , a consumer and investor protection law that restricts utilities from self-dealing and limits their ability to diversify into risky unregulated business ventures at the expense of utility consumers . 
second , let 's take a look at the just plain ugly . 
there 's a special provision in this bill for home depot that preempts several states existing or proposed energy efficiency standards for ceiling fans . 
there 's a special provision in here to protect halliburton from ever facing any federal regulation of the practice of drilling for oil using the hydraulic fracturing technique that actually injects diesel fuel into acquifers . 
there 's the special provision added that authorizes `` grants and other assistance '' to something called `` the dine power authority , an enterprise of the navajo nation. '' who are they ? 
why do they deserve our largess ? 
there 's the special provision added that provides a special exemption from our nation 's nuclear nonproliferation law for a canadian company named nordion , so that they wo n't be required to ever agree to convert their nuclear reactor to using low-enriched uranium fuel and targets , but can instead continue to use bomb-grade highly enriched uranium that is a potential terrorist target . 
there 's the special provision in the bill that provides a $ 1.3 billion subsidy to the idaho national laboratory to build a special advanced nuclear reactor to produce hydrogen for the hydrogen car . 
this is not what a national energy policy should be -- a tiny bit of good in a sea of bad and ugly provisions . 
no . 
we should try to seek a fair balance between the interests of consumers and producers , between the need for new production and the preservation of our natural environment . 
we should take advantage of america 's strength -- our technological superiority -- and not play to our weakness ( the fact that we control only 3 percent of the world 's oil reserves , while opec controls more than 70 percent ) . 
americans own more cars than there are licensed drivers , and yet this energy bill does nothing to address the fuel efficiency of cars . 
instead this bill offers up the false hope that drilling in the arctic refuge will solve our energy problems , ignoring that the united state 's 3 percent of world oil reserves will never match our 25 percent of world oil consumption . 
for some fuzzy math , we would sacrifice the last great wilderness in america , an area biologically unique within the american arctic . 
it did n't have to be this way . 
i lived through the energy policy battles of the late it did n't have to be this way . 
it really did n't . 
but the republican majority that controls this congress today decided to make energy policy partisan with a bill that is extreme and over-reaching . 
so i would say to my republican colleagues , you may have the votes to prevail here on the house floor this week , but this extreme bill will not become law . 
democrats in this body , along with our colleagues in the senate , will fight to ensure that the bad and ugly provisions that presently make up the bulk of this bill are deleted or revised . 
and if they are not , we will fight to prevent this bill from moving to the president 's desk . 
i urge my colleagues to vote against this bill . 
we can and must do much better . 
mr. chairman , i claim the time in opposition , and i yield myself 3 minutes . 
madam chairman , i rise in opposition to the barton manager 's amendment . 
i have a number of concerns about the manager 's amendment . 
let me just begin by saying that inside of the bill there was a provision that i authored in the committee on energy and commerce that was accepted by the chair , by the majority . 
and then , without any consultation with me , this amendment has been taken out of the energy bill by the manager 's amendment which is being proposed here today . 
let me tell you a little bit about the change they are going to make without any consultation with me . 
now , when you think of all the pollution that comes out of smokestacks , that is created by the generation of electricity from coal-fired plants or from gas-fired plants to create electricity , well , that electricity is being created in order , for the most part , to keep our lights on , our air-conditioning on , to make sure that we can live in a modern society . 
now , at the department of energy , in the first 5 years of the bush administration , they have yet to have a new rulemaking that would improve the efficiency of any of these appliances . 
now , the cumulative impact of that is that we are going to see , unfortunately , several hundred new coal-fired or gas-fired generating plants constructed in america . 
now , what does that mean ? 
well , in addition to the cost to consumers who are going to have to pay for these new plants , you also have all of the additional pollution . 
we have 8 million children with asthma . 
we have a rise in breast cancer and prostate cancer and other diseases . 
more than 50 percent of all disease is environmentally based , coming from what we breathe , from the water that we drink . 
the majority , in its wisdom , has decided they are going to impose no burdens on anyone who makes any appliances in america , so they have to improve their efficiency , which is very typical of the entire bush administration 's approach to these technologies . 
but the impact of having all of these window air conditioners , furnaces , lighting fixtures , heat pumps , 3 years from now , 6 years from now , 10 years from now being just as inefficient as they were 5 years ago is that all this additional pollution has to go into the air : the carbon , the mercury , the sulfur , the nitrous oxide that is inhaled by children in our country . 
and i just think it is wrong , without any consultation with me , to take my amendment and put it in this manager 's amendment , to have it deleted from the bill . 
madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
madam chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
here is the problem with the bush administration . 
the congress , over the years , has passed any number of regulations that deal with the issue of appliance efficiency , but the bush administration is allergic to energy efficiency . 
it just wants to put a big new gas station on top of the arctic wilderness or on top of any other pristine area in our country rather than looking at the technological genius of our country to find some way of improving our efficiency . 
so even with regard to new standards in this manager 's amendment , they give this administration 6 years , 6 years , to come up with new standards , even as the bush administration has not done anything for the first 5 years of its term of office at the height of an energy crisis , knowing the consequence of all of this pollution going into the atmosphere in terms of its impact upon the health of our country . 
my colleagues , just so you know , women in japan contract breast cancer at only one-fifth the rate of american women . 
women in japan contract breast cancer at only one-fifth the rate of american women . 
women in japan contract breast cancer at only one-fifth the rate of american women . 
after the family comes to america from japan , they contract it at the same rate as americans . 
that means it is not in the genes of the girls ; it means it is in our air , it is in our water . 
what this amendment does is , it says we are just going to build a couple hundred more large electrical generating plants , coal and natural gas , and just spew it into the atmosphere . 
well , that is going to be breathed in , all that mercury , all that sulfur and nitrous oxide , and it is going to have a dramatically negative impact upon the health of our country . 
my colleagues , this is a bad amendment , and i really regret it is out here and that my friend has proposed it . 
madam chairman , i yield myself 1 1/2 minutes . 
the provisions which are in the bill already are good . 
it is that they just do not go far enough to deal with this electricity crisis that we saw that went across the country . 
what the dingell amendment does is very simple . 
it creates an antifraud authority at the federal energy regulatory commission with tough , new criminal and civil penalties . 
it ensures , in other words , that they can get the real job done . 
it also provides real transparency on pricing and trading of electricity in this marketplace . 
it also prohibits self-dealing , interaffiliate dealing . 
all of the kinds of activities which were identified in the aftermath of the enron and the related scandals is prohibited ; and the authority is given to the ferc in order to make sure that they get the job done . 
this is the needed final piece to make sure we do not see a repetition of what happened at enron . 
vote `` aye '' on the dingell amendment . 
madam chairman , i yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 . 
madam chairman , i yield myself 3 minutes . 
the arctic national wildlife refuge is a national treasure , a place of ancient wilderness that remains much the same as it was at the end of the last ice age . 
it is one of the few places remaining in america where man has not scarred the land . 
it is a place where roads do not pave the way and where the animals truly do roam free . 
the refuge is home to the 130 , 000-strong porcupine caribou herd as well as polar bears , musk oxen and even more than 130 species of migratory birds . 
all wildlife refuges have , by bipartisan consensus , been set aside to ensure that a few special places , natural places , will not succumb to the pressures of commercial exploitation . 
the arctic refuge is one of the most unique wild and irreplaceable refuges of all . 
if we allow the oil and gas drillers into this refuge , we might as well say good-bye to protection of all 544 refuges in this country . 
the arctic national wildlife refuge is the crown jewel of the wildlife refuge system in the united states . 
of those 544 refuges , it is estimated that 60 percent of them have the potential for oil and gas development . 
overturning the 39-year precedent of never leasing a wildlife refuge to the oil companies where leases did not previously exist will set in motion a series of events that will endanger each of the other 543 refuges spread throughout the states and districts of the members of this body . 
besides the wildlife refuges , drilling in the arctic refuge is widely seen as the first step in lifting the moratoria on drilling on the outer continental shelf of the atlantic and pacific coasts , specifically in florida and california . 
the chairman of exxonmobil recently said that drilling in the arctic refuge is representative of the broader issue of whether drilling will be allowed in other environmentally sensitive places such as the coasts of california and florida . 
in a 2003 speech to the republican caucus , house majority leader tom delay proclaimed the issue of the arctic refuge is about precedent and repeatedly referred to its symbolism . 
matthew simmons , an oil industry banker and former bush adviser , recently told the new york times that if you can not do anwr , you will never be able to drill in the promising areas . 
ladies and gentlemen , this is a huge test for us . 
the republican majority has decided not to do anything about making suvs and automobiles more fuel efficient , and that is where 70 percent of all gasoline , all oil , goes , into those gasoline tanks . 
instead of making those vehicles more efficient , what they have decided to do is to construct a gasoline station on top of the arctic wildlife refuge in order to fuel those inefficient vehicles . 
we must stop them . 
madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. lee ) xz4002370 . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from minnesota ( mr. kennedy ) xz4002141 . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey ) xz4004360 . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich ) xz4002270 . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from washington state ( mr. inslee ) xz4001930 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new mexico ( mr. udall ) xz4004131 . 
mr. chairman , may i inquire of the chair how much time is remaining . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of the time . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from washington state ( mr. inslee . ) mr. chairman , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. menendez ) xz4002720 , the chairman of the democratic caucus . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. eshoo ) xz4001240 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from california ( mr. cardoza ) xz4000650 . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , this is the key issue if we are going to get serious about the imports of oil into our country . 
we put 70 percent of all oil that we consume in america into gasoline tanks . 
in 1975 , we averaged 13 miles per gallon ; we averaged 13 miles per gallon in 1935 . 
but congress , because of the energy crisis , passed a law mandating a doubling of the standards in 10 years , and the auto industry responded ; and by 1986 , the average was 27 miles per gallon , and we had opec on its back . 
the price of oil fell to $ 12 a barrel . 
we , using our technological genius , had won . 
now , it is almost 20 years later and america is now averaging 23 miles per gallon . 
we have gone backwards 4 miles per gallon and played into opec 's hands as the price of oil goes up to $ 50 to $ 55 to $ 58 a barrel , as consumers are tipped upside down every time they go into a gas station in order to pay to fill up their car . 
the only answer is to call upon our country 's greatness to improve the fuel economy standards to 33 miles per gallon by 2015 . 
in other words , to add only 6 additional miles per gallon over what was accomplished in 1986 . 
the opponents of this amendment say that is impossible . 
well , we put a man on the moon in 9 years . 
we improved the fuel economy standards in 10 years by 13 miles per gallon in the 1970s and 1980s , but now we are being told that we do not have any longer the ability to do that . 
well , we are 60 percent dependent upon imported oil . 
we are heading towards 65 percent , towards 70 percent . 
that is increased national security problems for our country that we will look back at and regret that we missed this opportunity to make our country more secure . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. bishop ) xz4000311 for yielding me this time . 
i thank the gentleman from new york for his leadership on this issue , and i am proud to follow his leadership on this amendment . 
last thursday , president bush addressed the american society of newspaper editors . 
here is what he said : `` i will tell you , with $ 55 a barrel oil , we do not need incentives to oil and gas companies to explore . 
there are plenty of incentives . 
what we need is to put a strategy in place that will help this country over time become less dependent . 
it is really important , '' said the president . 
`` it is an important part of our economic security and it is an important part of our national security. '' those were the president 's words last week . 
but the president then went on to call upon congress to pass the republican energy bill , a bill replete with a rich assortment of tax and deregulatory incentives for the oil and gas companies to explore , even though they are essentially already drowning in windfall profits . 
the price of oil has doubled essentially from $ 25 a barrel to more than $ 50 a barrel . 
that is all extra cash in the oil companies ' pockets . 
so the president , i think , has to rely upon his own energy department , because his own energy department has acknowledged that this bill that we are debating would result in only negligible changes to overall demand , production , and imports , a bill that the energy department acknowledges will actually increase gasoline prices at the pump between 3.5 and 8 cents a gallon . 
the bill will increase the price of gasoline . 
so even though the president says the oil companies do not need incentives to drill when prices are so high , in this bill we are providing more than $ 3 billion in tax incentives to big oil . 
this is just at the point at which all of their profits are doubling . 
we are giving them tax breaks . 
it is absolutely unbelievable . 
so what the gentleman from new york ( mr. bishop ) xz4000311 has done is put out a series of provisions . 
if members do not want to support increasing fuel economy standards for suvs and automobiles so we can take on opec , what we have is another series of alternatives that can be engaged in which are much less draconian , but will at least give us some improvement in the way this country interrelates with gas , oil , and other energy sources . 
if members feel that the boehlert-markey amendment is too radical , this is your cup of tea . 
i thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. bishop ) xz4000311 for his help on this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of the amendment offered by the gentleman from new york ( mr. bishop ) and i am pleased to join as a cosponsor of this amendment . 
last thursday , the president addressed the american society of newspaper editors . 
he said : i will tell you with $ 55 oil we do n't need incentives to oil and gas companies to explore . 
there are plenty of incentives . 
what we need is to put a strategy in place that will help this country over time become less dependent . 
it 's really important . 
it 's an important part of our economic security , and it 's an important part of our national security . 
but the president then went on to call upon congress to pass the republican energy bill -- a bill replete with a rich assortment of tax and deregulatory `` incentives '' for the oil and gas companies to explore , a bill that the president 's own energy department has acknowledged would result in only `` negligible '' changes to overall demand , production and imports , a bill that the energy department acknowledges will actually increase gasoline prices at the pump by between 3.5 and 8 cents a gallon . 
so , even though the president says the oil companies do n't need `` incentives '' to drill when prices are so high , we are providing more than $ 3 billion in tax incentives to big oil . 
we are giving them `` royalty relief '' so they do n't have to pay the public a fair price for drilling on public lands . 
that is what h.r. 6 offers up as a solution to high oil and gasoline prices . 
this bill says let 's give more tax breaks to oil and gas companies that even a president who was a former texas oil man has said are not needed . 
this bill says let 's enact proposals that would actullay increase the price that consumers pay to fill up their gas tanks . 
that is no solution . 
the amendment being offered by the gentleman from new york and myself takes a different approach . 
while i continue to believe that the real solution to the current high gas prices is increased efficiency , the house has already debated that issue . 
this amendment says , if you are n't willing to take the step of mandating higher fuel efficiency standards , are you at least will to take some more modest steps ? 
on the issue of gas prices , our amendment says , when oil prices are at record highs , let 's stop filling the strategic petroleum reserve . 
let 's return to the principle of considering the impact of oil and gas prices and the economy when we are making decisions about whether and when to fill the reserve . 
are you at least willing to do that ? 
at the same time , our amendment expresses the sense of congress that the federal trade commission and the justice department should exercise vigorous oversight of our nation 's oil and gas markets to guard against price gouging or market manipulation . 
it expresses the sense of congress that the president should put pressure on opec and non-opec oil producers to increase oil production to help bring down prices . 
it gives the ftc the power to require full disclosure by refiners and distributors of fuel pricing policies , costs , and profits , so consumers will be better able to determine whether the oil companies are profiteering from the current volatility in oil markets . 
are you at least willing to do that ? 
our amendment also would extend the renewable energy production tax credit for 5 years , so that companies know that there will be incentives out there to make the investment in building new solar , wind , geothermal and biomass technologies , so we can become less dependent on coal and natural gas to generate electricity . 
our amendment strikes the cap on energy savings performance contracts , an important tool used by the federal government to reduce the amount of energy consumed in federal buildings across the country . 
our amendment would put in place three additional appliance efficiency standards -- commercial packaged air conditioners and heat pumps , residential dehumidifiers , and commercial spray valves used in restaurants . 
in addition , under the amendment , efficiency standards for residential and commercial furnaces and boilers , which have been languishing over at the energy department for more than 10 years , would be speeded up . 
we would strike the home depot ceiling fan language that immediately preempts state ceiling fan standards before there 's even a federal standard in place . 
we would provide a new 10 percent investment tax credit for high-efficient combined heat and power systems . 
we would provide a tax deduction for expenses needed to reduce energy use of new and existing commercial buildings by 50 percent below model commercial codes . 
we would provide a tax credit for new homes that reduce energy costs by 20-50 percent , and we 'd provide a tax deduction for expenses needed to cut energy use at new and existing commercial buildings . 
we would provide for the creation of an emerging technology trust fund to help develop emerging technologies for more efficient and renewable energy sources , as well as a small business commercialization program , to provide assistance for small businesses and start-up companies trying to introduce alternative energy and efficiency technologies into the marketplace . 
finally , our amendment includes the dingell democratic alternative amendment on electricity , which would preserve the bill 's mandatory reliability provisions , but delete its proposed repeal of the public utility holding company act . 
the dingell language would also give ferc stronger legal authorities to police electricity and natural gas markets for fraud . 
the bishop-markey democratic enbloc amendments make some modest but useful steps toward making this energy bill a more a balanced bill and a more consumer friendly bill . 
i urge my colleagues to vote for the amendment . 
mr. chairman , this photo behind me is an lng tanker in boston harbor delivering lng to everett , massachusetts . 
right behind you can see east boston high school . 
if there was a terrorist attack , if there was an accident , you would not call the federal government . 
it would be the local police , the local fire department , the local emergency medical technicians that would respond . 
the republican bill eliminates the state and local participation in determining where a facility like this would be placed . 
now , it is not like there is a crisis . 
in america there were two of these facilities in 2001 . 
there are now five . 
six more have already been licensed by the state governments and the federal government in the united states . 
there is no crisis . 
so why are the mayors , why are the governors being walled out ? 
it is because the republican majority wants to hand it over to the federal government and to the natural gas industry . 
but it would be very dangerous to exclude the communities that are most affected , especially when states know they need the lng , we admit that , but we want to put it in more remote areas in the state or perhaps offshore and have it be piped in . 
but the republican majority says , no , we want to put it in the most densely populated areas and wall out all governors , all state officials . 
vote `` yes '' for the castle amendment . 
protect states ' rights . 
mr. chairman , this issue is one of whether or not you want the federal government to decide if you are on a coastline in the united states that an lng facility is coming to your district . 
if you want your governor , your mayors to have a role , some role , in deciding where an lng facility is located , which would have catastrophic consequences if there was an accident or terrorist attack , you vote `` aye '' on the castle amendment . 
if you just want the federal government to decide in the middle of your district where this most attractive of all terrorist targets will be located , then you vote `` no , '' but understand the consequences on the floor today . 
madam chairman , friday is earth day , but that will not stop the republicans from passing legislation that will make the earth dirtier , more polluted and warmer . 
the republican legislation favors corporate america over main street in america . 
it will neither ask nor answer any of the energy issues that threaten our environment , our economy and future generations . 
instead , the republicans will answer the greatest challenge of our time by telling americans to dig deeper into their pockets for big oil . 
at a time when america needs energy vision , republicans have provided us with their corporate donor lists . 
despite soaring prices , despite dangers to our economy and security for our dependence on oil , the administration puts forward the deal of the century for big oil , gas and coal . 
it rewards its friends and encourages america 's addiction to oil . 
nothing in this bill will lower gasoline prices a single penny . 
nothing in this bill will alter our dependence on oil . 
nothing in this bill will address the needs and concerns of the american people facing economic peril at the pump every morning when they put $ 50 worth of gas into their car . 
instead , americans from maine to california will pay at the pump and pay through the nose . 
big oil 's profits today defy description . 
the ceo of exxonmobil who does not think global warming is real was paid $ 38 million last year . 
the price of crude oil jumped $ 2 a barrel yesterday . 
that added $ 1 billion of earnings to mobil 's earnings . 
maybe that explains why oil and gas companies have reduced their investment in facilities by 20 percent even as their profits have increased 400 percent . 
the oil and gas industry is sitting atop a mountain of cash looking down on americans who are held hostage by runaway gas prices that grow the mountain of oil prices even higher . 
and we are giving them $ 7 billion more today . 
they do not need it . 
across the country gasoline prices are 20 percent higher than they were a year ago . 
neither wages nor economic opportunities come close to bridging that kind of deficit for the american family . 
the only choice for more americans is to pay more , save less , use consumer debt . 
oh , yeah , remember the bankruptcy bill ? 
and give up something to make the frayed ends meet , while exxonmobil 's ceo pockets $ 38 million . 
with the price of crude oil sky high , you would think we would be declaring a 12-alarm economic fire that endangers the lives of every american family and the economic health of our economy . 
let me quote something that sums this up . 
`` we are grossly wasting our energy resources and other precious raw materials as though their supply was infinite. '' president jimmy carter spoke those words in 1976 , almost 30 years ago . 
we laughed at him when he put on a sweater and said maybe we should turn the thermostat down 1 degree . 
yet today americans propose a policy that seeks to roll backward from the ominous warnings of the mid-1970s . 
america needs vision and leadership , but the republicans will pass a bill that endorses and rewards the traditional forms of energy . 
it proposes cutting billions in promising renewable energy provisions . 
it proposes waiving liability for companies that pollute our groundwater . 
it subsidizes oil , gas and coal . 
it fails to address meaningful automobile conservation . 
and worst of all , we are going to go up to the alaska wildlife refuge and we are going to drill . 
we are going to drill our way to oblivion if we follow this pattern . 
mr. chairman , the republican energy bill is a license to steal . 
it sanctions big oil 's approach to america 's energy crisis : do nothing except count the monstrous profits . 
profits may be up 400 percent , but this bill allows big oil to earn even more money to add to their current $ 55 billion cash on hand . 
they will earn it at the pump , and they will earn it at the treasury department . 
an accounting gimmick allows big oil to escape paying anything close to its fair share of taxes . 
that is the republican way . 
the democrats propose , and i proposed in the committee on ways and means , something radically different in our alternative energy bill , actually paying for it . 
imagine that , a bill we paid for on the floor of this house . 
we want to eliminate the provision called lifo . 
it means last in first out . 
you buy a barrel of oil at $ 20 , and you buy a barrel 6 months later at $ 50 . 
when you put it out , you use the $ 50 barrel . 
you cut down the profits . 
of course , that is what they do . 
that is the american way of saying to big oil : pay now less , and then pay even less later . 
democrats are proposing something else , investing in the 21st century energy sources . 
we provide a tax credit for new homes that reduce energy by at least 30 percent . 
that benefits americans and encourages a paradigm shift in thinking to produce energy by saving it . 
we will establish an emergency technology trust fund . 
we want to harness the power of our best minds to chart a course of energy independence . 
we want to extend the renewable energy tax credit . 
america needs the power of wind . 
my state is full of wind farms provided by mother nature , and we can harness it . 
democrats see america as strong and free of an addiction to big oil . 
we are addicted to oil ; and as long as we remain addicted to oil , we are not going to get any better in this whole area . 
we see in america where people are not faced with choosing gasoline over food . 
at $ 3 a gallon for gasoline , you are hitting pretty hard on the food budget . 
tonight is a defining moment . 
republicans want americans firmly rooted in the past , relying on fuel sources that make us vulnerable to too many foreign countries . 
democrats envision america firmly and finally looking to the future , embracing a path to independence and freedom . 
vote for america . 
vote for the democratic alternative energy bill that takes this country where it belongs , into the 21st century . 
vote for the bishop-markey-mcdermott amendment . 
mr. speaker , i make a point of order . 
mr. speaker , pursuant to section 426 on the congressional budget act of 1974 , i make a point of order against consideration of the rule , h. res. 219 . 
page 1 , line 7 , through page 2 , line 1 , of h. res. 219 states , `` all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. '' the rule makes in order h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 , which contains a large unfunded mandate on state and local governments in violation of section 425 of the budget act . 
section 426 of the budget act specifically states that the committee on rules may not waive section 425 , and therefore this rule violates section 426 . 
mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. speaker , back in 1995 , my republican colleagues , the so-called champions of states ' rights , led the fight to pass the unfunded mandates reform act , a bill they claimed would stop the federal government from imposing the costs of federally mandated programs on states and localities . 
well , here we are 10 years later and the tables have turned . 
my republican colleagues are bringing a bill to the floor that imposes a multibillion dollar unfunded mandate on communities around the country whose water supplies have been tainted by the fuel additive mtbe . 
this additive , a known brown water contaminant used by oil companies for nearly two decades , has seeped into our nation 's water supply . 
in all , mtbe has been detected in over 1 , 800 water systems , which serve 45 million americans . 
this is the water that our constituents , our communities and our families use , and it has been contaminated with a potential human carcinogen . 
despite knowing all of this , the republican leadership has no reservations about shielding oil companies from any liability to the damages caused by mtbe . 
and then if that were not bad enough , they have included a nearly $ 2 billion bailout for these same companies . 
so while communities will be left to cover the overwhelming costs of cleanup , not only will these oil companies get a free pass , but they will also get another kickback at the expense of taxpayers . 
here the republican leadership is once again weighing the interests of big oil above the health and safety of our communities . 
specifically , section 1502 of the energy bill we are talking about today creates a safe harbor for mtbe manufacturers against lawsuits that attempt to hold them accountable for the damage their product has wrought on the water supplies of communities all over the country . 
as the letter the congressional budget office sent to the gentleman from california ( chairman dreier ) yesterday explains , while the bill creates a safe harbor for the mtbe manufacturers , it sticks our state and local governments with a bill that could be as large as $ 29 billion . 
during these bad economic times , how many states and local communities can afford that ? 
by blocking the claims of local governments against the mtbe manufacturers , this bill will force communities to come up with hundreds of millions of dollars to clean up their water . 
cbo concludes that the annual cost of this mandate over the next 5 years is likely to exceed $ 62 million , which accordingly triggers the unfunded mandate law republicans so proudly backed in 1995 . 
the fact is that the rule waives all points of order against the bill . 
the budget act specifically says that the committee on rules can not waive points of order against unfunded mandates , yet the republican leadership blatantly ignores this . 
mr. speaker , the house can either choose to consider this bill in spite of the bill 's unfunded mandate , or it can send this bill back to committee and strike the mtbe section from the bill , eliminating the violation of this point of order . 
at the end of this debate , therefore , i will call for a vote on a motion to continue consideration or fix this problem . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. speaker , i yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 . 
mr. speaker , i yield myself 30 seconds . 
mr. speaker , let me respond to my colleague , the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 , and simply say this is an unfunded mandate . 
the cbo says so . 
here is the letter we received yesterday , and it says very clearly that this is an unfunded mandate . 
i know my colleagues all have great confidence in the cbo . 
my colleague , the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions ) xz4003670 , made the following statement on cbo just a few months ago . 
he said , the congressional budget office is a professional organization that assists the united states congress in knowing in a nonpartisan way those impacts on the laws that we pass . 
well , here it is in black and white . 
cbo says this is an unfunded mandate , and people need to understand that if they do not vote for what we are saying here today , they are supporting an unfunded mandate . 
u.s. congress , congressional budget office , washington , dc , april 19 , 2005 . 
dear mr . 
chairman : based on a preliminary review of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 , as introduced in the house of representatives on april 18 , 2005 , cbo estimates that enacting this legislation would reduce direct spending by $ 1.1 billion over the 2006-2010 period and by $ 0.4 billion over the 2006-2015 period . 
cbo and the joint committee on taxation estimate that the legislation would reduce revenues by $ 4.0 billion over the 2006-2010 period and by $ 7.9 billion over the 2006-2015 period . 
the estimated direct spending and revenue effects are summarized below . 
a table with additional details is attached . 
implementing this legislation also would affect spending subject to appropriation action , but cbo has not completed an estimate of the potential discretionary costs . 
h.r. 6 contains numerous mandates as defined in the unfunded mandates reform act ( umra ) that would affect both intergovernmental and private-sector entities . 
based on our review of the bill , cbo expects that the mandates ( new requirements , limits on existing rights , and preemptions ) contained in the bill 's titles on motor fuels ( title xv ) , nuclear energy ( title vi ) , electricity ( title xii ) and energy efficiency ( title i ) would have the greatest impact on state and local governments and private-sector entities . 
cbo estimates that the cost of complying with intergovernmental mandates , in aggregate , could be significant and likely would exceed the threshold established in umra ( $ 62 million in 2005 , adjusted annually for inflation ) at some point over the next five years because we expect that future damage awards for state and local governments under the bill 's safe harbor provision ( title xi ) would likely be reduced . 
as explained below , that provision would shield the motor fuels industry from liability under certain conditions . 
section 1502 would shield manufacturers of motor fuels and other persons from liability for claims based on defective product relating to motor vehicle fuel containing methyl tertiary butyl ether or renewable fuel . 
that protection would be in effect as long as the fuel is in compliance with other applicable federal requirements . 
the provision would impose both an intergovernmental and private-sector mandate as it would limit existing rights to seek compensation under current law . 
( the provision would not affect other causes of action such as nuisance or negligence. ) under current law , plaintiffs in existing and future cases may stand to receive significant amounts in damage awards , based , at least in part , on claims of defective product . 
because section 1502 would apply to all such claims filed on or after september 5 , 2003 , it would affect more than 100 existing claims filed by local communities , states , and some private companies against oil companies . 
individual judgments and settlements for similar lawsuits over the past several years have ranged from several million dollars to well over $ 100 million . 
based on the size of damages already awarded and on information from industry experts , cbo anticipates that precluding existing and future claims based on defective product would reduce the size of judgments in favor of state and local governments over the next five cbo can not determine whether the aggregate cost of the private-sector mandates in the bill would exceed the threshold established in umra primarily for two reasons . 
first , some of the requirements established by the bill would hinge on future regulatory action for which information is not available . 
second , umra does not specify whether cbo should measure the cost of extending a mandate relative to the mandate 's current costs or assume that the mandate will expire and measure the costs of the mandate 's extension as if the requirement were new . 
the bill would extend the existing mandate that requires licensees to pay fees to offset roughly 90 percent of the nuclear regulatory commission 's annual appropriation . 
measures against the costs that would be incurred if current law remains in place , the cost to the private sector of extending this mandate would exceed the annual threshold established in umra ( $ 123 million in 2005 , adjusted annually for inflation ) . 
if you wish further details on this estimate , we will be pleased to provide them . 
the cbo staff contacts are lisa cash driskill , ( for federal costs ) , who can be reached at 226-2860 , theresa gullo ( for intergovernmental mandates ) , who can be reached at 225-3220 , and patrice gordon ( for private-sector mandates ) , who can be reached at 226-2940 . 
sincerely , douglas holtz-eakin , attachment . 
mr. speaker , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from california ( mr. costa ) xz4006180 . 
may i ask the gentleman from texas how many other speakers he has . 
mr. speaker , i yield my remaining time of 1 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from california ( mr. george miller ) xz4002780 . 
mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions ) xz4003670 for yielding me the customary 30 minutes . 
mr. speaker , last week the republican leadership made a mockery of the democratic process with the bankruptcy bill by closing debate and not even allowing one amendment to that important bill . 
there was outrage across the country . 
and today we are considering the rule for another important bill , the energy bill , and the committee on rules made in order 31 amendments this time . 
i can only hope that the pressure to be fair is finally getting to them . 
but while this may seem to be a small step in the right direction , it is a far cry from where this house should be . 
and once again a majority of amendments were shut out from receiving a vote on the floor . 
important amendments on important issues like global warming , a topic not even mentioned once in this bill , and mtbe liability protection were denied a vote by the heavy hand of the committee on rules and the republican leadership . 
so we still have a long way to go before democracy is restored in this house . 
as for the underlying bill , we have seen this movie before . 
two years ago the energy bill did nothing to help consumers with high energy costs . 
it did nothing to help the environment . 
it hurt taxpayers . 
it was a lousy piece of legislation . 
and it failed , rightly , to reach the president 's desk . 
it is dja 2 vu all over again . 
it is a new congress . 
there is a new bill number and a new name for the bill . 
but let us be clear . 
this bill is actually worse than the bill the house considered in the last congress . 
mr. speaker , once again i will vote against this bill because it is nothing more than a giveaway to the oil , gas , and other energy industries at a time when they do not need these giveaways , because it will not lower energy prices for consumers , because it does not reduce our nation 's dependency on foreign oil , and because it harms the environment . 
our nation is facing a severe energy crisis . 
since january of 2001 , the price of crude oil has more than doubled , reaching an all-time high just last week of $ 58 per barrel . 
in just the last 7 weeks , gasoline prices have ballooned to $ 2.28 per gallon nationwide . 
in my home state of massachusetts , gas prices have risen over 40 cents per gallon in just 1 year . 
there the average driver has been forced to bear the financial burden of this dramatic increase , paying an additional $ 330 each year since 2000 . 
that is a tax increase courtesy of the bush administration and the republican congress . 
and despite this reality , the bill we are debating today does absolutely nothing to address the rising price of gas . 
instead , it gives kickbacks in the form of tax breaks and subsidies to oil and gas companies , which will actually increase the price of gas at the pump . 
in all , the energy industry would receive $ 8 billion in tax breaks under this bill despite their record-high profits . 
president bush is no friend of the environment , but at least he had the sense to propose some exploration of renewable energy sources . 
the president 's budget called for $ 6.7 billion in tax breaks for energy with 72 percent of these tax breaks going toward renewable sources of energy and energy efficiency . 
but under this bill , only 6 percent of the $ 8 billion in tax breaks goes for the renewable sources of energy and energy efficiency . 
it seems impossible , but the house republicans have actually made the president look like an environmentalist . 
in a recent statement before the american society of newspaper editors , president bush said , `` i will tell you with $ 55 oil , we do n't need incentives to oil and gas companies to explore . 
there are plenty of incentives . 
what we need is to put a strategy in place that will help this country over time become less dependent. '' if the president is really looking for that sensible strategy , he will not find it in this bill . 
so if this bill does not help control the price of gas at the pump , decrease our dependence on foreign oil , or invest in renewable sources of energy , what does it do ? 
unique to this year 's legislation is section 320 , language which would give the federal energy regulatory commission , ferc , sole authority to make decisions regarding the construction , expansion , and operation of liquefied natural gas facilities , lngs . 
currently both ferc and states play a role in the siting and environmental review of the proposed lng facilities . 
and the current process , mr. speaker , has not halted the construction of new lng facilities . 
so why is this provision in the bill ? 
to date , neither the house nor the senate has held a single hearing on this issue in supporting this language . 
the lng provision in this bill directly undermines the ability of state and local officials to ensure that any new lng facility is not sited in an area where it could pose a danger to the surrounding community . 
on november 21 , 2003 , the department of homeland security warned of an increase risk of terrorist attacks , noting of particular concern al qaeda 's continued interest in targeting liquid natural gas , chemical , and other hazardous materials facilities . 
in my district there is a proposal to construct an lng storage tank in fall river . 
if approved , the actual site would be just 1 , 200 feet from homes and over 9 , 000 people live within a 1-mile radius of the tank . 
the tankers that would deliver the lng would have to pass under two bridges in rhode island and two bridges in massachusetts . 
i could not think of a worse location for these tankers if i tried . 
so if this site were approved , thousands of american citizens would be in danger from an explosion or a spill . 
to their credit , like many other state and local communities , the residents of fall river , led by mayor ed lambert , have been on the frontlines fighting against this lng facility . 
they have instead pushed for more remote siting , in areas less densely populated . 
but if this bill passes , cities like fall river would have little ability to block or influence the siting of future lng facilities . 
so i am pleased that the rule makes in order the castle-markey amendment , which would strike section 320 from the bill ; and i urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this amendment . 
and , mr. speaker , i insert into the record a letter of opposition to section 320 from mayor ed lambert from fall river this morning . 
city of fall river , fall river , ma , april 20 , 2005 . 
dear members of congress : i am writing to express my concerns with language contained within the current draft of the energy bill . 
as the mayor of a community involved in this debate over lng import terminal siting , i am concerned that language currently contained within this draft of the energy bill would severely minimize or take away the right of local and state governments to participate in the process of siting lng import terminals . 
it appears to me that this bill would seek to give ferc overreaching authority when it comes to siting lng import terminals . 
i find it ironic that those who normally argue for states ' rights would want to give the federal government such broad and sweeping powers . 
further , i am not convinced that we are currently engaged in a process that would appropriately balance energy interests with homeland security concerns . 
mark prescott , chief of the coast guard 's deepwater ports standards division was recently quoted in an april 3 , 2005 newsday article as saying , `` is it easier to protect an offshore facility ? 
probably not , but the consequences of something happening there are far less than the consequences of something happening in a ship channel in the middle of a city. '' if the coast guard recognizes that lng import terminals , if placed in offshore or remote settings would pose less of a risk to the public in the event of an incident , then why does n't the rest of our government ? 
in this same article the coast guard also spoke to the issue of security for lng tankers in offshore or remote settings in conclusion , i vehemently oppose , and believe that other local and state officials around the country involved with this lng import terminal siting debate would also oppose , any attempts to remove or abridge a state or local community 's right to be involved with any and all review processes that pertain to lng import terminals . 
the goal of the federal government should be to listen to what state and local governments have to say and to use that input to set good national policy when it comes to siting these terminals . 
anything less than that is a dereliction of duty . 
thank you for your time and consideration . 
very truly yours , edward m. lambert , jr. , mr. speaker , we have heard about the mtbe provision in this bill . 
i will not go into detail about that again , but let me say that the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 brought forward a very thoughtful amendment regarding mtbe . 
this is a very real problem in many communities across the country , and the republican leadership should have at least had the guts to allow an up-or-down vote on the capps amendment . 
i can only assume that the leadership is once again protecting their corporate friends from a vote that they know they would lose . 
finally , this legislation would open the arctic national wildlife refuge , one of our nation 's few remaining environmental treasures , to oil and drilling . 
for years the oil industry has targeted this coastal plain ; and under the guise of national security , they have argued that without access to oil in the arctic , we will continue to be dependent upon foreign oil . 
though it is certainly a good soundbite , the reality is that even under the most optimistic scenarios , oil from the refuge would meet a tiny fraction of this country 's needs . 
so let us be clear . 
big oil 's priorities go beyond anwr . 
opening anwr to drilling sets a precedent for the opening of other protected areas in the future . 
so to my friends in california and florida , they should know one thing : they are probably next . 
mr. speaker , i can not say it more simply than this : the energy policy act is a bad bill , and it must be defeated . 
this bill will destroy the environment , reward special interests at the expense of consumers and taxpayers , and limit states ' rights . 
we have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to reduce and eliminate our dependency on foreign oil . 
we have an opportunity to develop wind and fuel-cell technology . 
we have an opportunity to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases and combat global warming . 
this bill squanders those opportunities . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. speaker , i yield 2 1/2 minutes to the distinguished minority whip , the gentleman from maryland ( mr. hoyer ) xz4001890 . 
mr. speaker , i yield 3 minutes to the distinguished gentlewoman from new york ( ms. slaughter ) xz4003780 , the ranking democrat of the house committee on rules . 
mr. speaker , i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. matsui ) xz4006631 , our distinguished new member of the committee on rules . 
mr. speaker , i yield 2 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 , the dean of the house and the ranking democrat on the energy and commerce committee . 
mr. speaker , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. eshoo . ) mr. speaker , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. frank ) xz4001400 . 
mr. speaker , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from florida ( mr. davis ) xz4000941 . 
mr. speaker , i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from nevada ( ms. berkley ) xz4000240 . 
mr. speaker , how much time remains on both sides ? 
mr. speaker , i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. eddie bernice johnson ) xz4002040 . 
mr. speaker , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from oregon ( mr. blumenauer ) xz4000330 . 
mr. speaker , i yield myself the remaining time . 
mr. speaker , first of all , with regard to the rule , the majority just does not get it . 
out of 90 amendments that were offered last night in the committee on rules , there were 22 democratic amendments made in order . 
thanks for making the 22 amendments in order ; but quite frankly , it is not enough . 
this is the energy bill . 
this is an important bill . 
as my colleagues have heard from various members here today , a lot of important amendments were not made in order . 
the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 talked about the mtbe issue . 
her amendment was not made in order . 
the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. eddie bernice johnson ) xz4002040 just talked about her clean air amendment which was not made in order . 
the gentleman from west virginia ( mr. rahall ) xz4003310 had a coal amendment which was not made in order . 
the gentleman from maryland ( mr. gilchrest ) xz4001490 , the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. olver ) xz4003010 , and the gentleman from maryland ( mr. van hollen ) xz4004150 had an amendment on global warming , to come up with a strategy to deal with it . 
that was not made in order . 
my colleagues heard from the gentlewoman from nevada ( ms. berkley ) xz4000240 talk about yucca mountain . 
her amendment was not made in order . 
tax credits for hybrid cars . 
the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 talked about hydroelectric licensing . 
that was not made in order . 
so a lot of very important and vital issues , we have been shut out from offering them here today . 
if we are going to have a real democracy and a real debate on this issue , these important issues should have a place for debate here on the house floor . 
let me just finally say instead of bringing up yet another bill that rewards corporate donors , i wish the leadership on the other side would think about the future , about the world our children and grandchildren will inherit and give us an energy bill that actually makes the world a better place . 
this bill does not do it , and i would urge my colleagues to vote against it . 
mr. chairman , the republican leadership acts as if there is one set of rules for republicans and another set of rules for the rest of us . 
well , it has taken more than 4 hours , but they have finally , reluctantly recognized that at least on this occasion a democrat , the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 , has a right to offer an amendment , a good amendment that strikes a provision in this bill that protects polluters and penalizes taxpayers . 
for people who are not familiar with the rules of the house , here is what is going on . 
in 1995 the republicans passed a law called the unfunded mandates reform act . 
the purpose of the law was to prevent the federal government from passing bills that impose unfunded mandates on our state and local governments . 
at the time , they touted this law as a sign that they would run the government differently and show more respect to local governments . 
they issued thousands of press releases patting themselves on the back for this legislative accomplishment . 
well , here is the problem . 
according to the congressional budget office , not the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 , not the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern ) xz4002630 , not the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi ) xz4003140 , but according to the congressional budget office , the mtbe provision in this bill is a big , fat unfunded mandate . 
that is the bottom line . 
the other side can spin it all they want , but cbo says this is an unfunded mandate . 
to my friends who want to protect the polluters , i say , come up with the money to pay for it . 
do not pass it on to communities that are already strapped for cash . 
do not pass the buck . 
cleaning up the mtbe drinking water contamination could cost our local communities as much as $ 29 billion . 
thanks to the capps amendment , you will have the opportunity to go on record as to whether you favor or oppose this unfunded mandate . 
to my friends who sometimes vote against things claiming that they are mere partisan procedural votes , this is different . 
this is not a procedural vote . 
this is an amendment to strike out language that gets mtbe producers off the hook for polluting our drinking water and sticks average taxpayers with the bill . 
so this is a different vote from the vote we had yesterday . 
let me say to my friends in the republican leadership , you could have avoided the scene we saw on the house floor today . 
the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 brought her amendment to the committee on rules tuesday night and asked for an opportunity to consider this amendment on the house floor . 
but the heavy hand of the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay ) xz4001040 and the republican leadership denied her . 
i am happy that we have the opportunity to right that wrong . 
this vote is clear . 
you either favor unfunded mandates or you do not . 
you either want to reward polluters at taxpayers ' expense or you do not . 
vote for the capps amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to this imbalanced energy bill , which allows big energy companies to exploit our natural resources at the expense of u.s. taxpayers . 
the bill would repeal the public utilities holding companies act -- puhca -- which prevents big energy firms , like enron , from driving smaller utilities out of business and monopolizing the energy market . 
the bill includes a safe-harbor provision for mtbe manufacturers even though the chemical has been detected polluting groundwater sources across the nation , including in massachusetts . 
the bill 's authors included a variety of special-interest favors for oil and gas production despite the fact that producers are already reaping profits from record high energy prices . 
and yet president bush himself admitted that it will do nothing to lower the price that consumers pay for gas at the pump . 
and the bill would open the door to oil and gas exploration in the arctic national wildlife refuge , a pristine habitat that would yield less than three-tenths of a percent of world oil production by 2015 . 
the california energy crisis and today 's high fuel demands are evidence that the nation needs an energy strategy that is focused on clean energy technologies and energy independence . 
the united states needs to become less reliant on foreign energy sources . 
we can not drill our way to independence . 
the only effective strategy will balance increased fuel efficiency with renewable energy technologies . 
instead of using the technology we already have and could achieve to increase the fuel economy of new fleets of vehicles , the bill does little more than order a study . 
unfortunately , this bill will only worsen our nation 's dependence on fossil fuels imported from the middle east . 
at current production levels the u.s. supply of oil will only last another 20 years , while the oil supply in saudi arabia is estimated to last another 75 years . 
our reliance on saudi oil is harmful to our environment and our values . 
fossil fuels like oil and coal provide the vast majority of energy for the united states . 
that was unlikely to change for the near future no matter what bill we had a chance to vote on . 
unfortunately , this bill does little to put this nation on a path to greater energy independence . 
this bill does not represent a national energy policy -- it is 1000 pages of shameless special interest giveaways . 
i urge its defeat . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the boehlert-markey amendment . 
despite the bill 's claims to meet our nation 's energy needs and provide for our nation 's future , h.r. 6 ignores a pivotal approach that will reduce our foreign dependence on oil and alleviate our high oil consumption , increasing fuel economy standards . 
let us look at what we know . 
we know that fuel economy standards have helped to reduce our dependence on foreign oil . 
we know that raising the standard to 33 miles a gallon over the next 10 years , which this amendment would do , would save 10 percent of the gas we will consume , and we know that we have the potential in this country to make cars and light trucks much more efficiently . 
mr. chairman , we need to unlock that potential . 
we have the technology ; we have the innovation . 
despite all of this , the bill before us makes no effort to increase those standards . 
we have a choice : do we want an energy future that is stagnant and dependent on traditional sources , or do we want a future that will break new boundaries in innovation and technology , reduce our dependency on foreign oil , increase conservation and efficiency and ensure the security of our nation ? 
let us prove that we are serious about our nation 's energy future . 
increasing fuel economy standards should be part of the solution and part of our national energy policy . 
and i urge my colleagues to vote for the boehlert-markey amendment . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time , and i rise in strong support of this point of order . 
simply saying in the legislation that this is not an unfunded mandate does not make the fact that it is not an unfunded mandate . 
failure to provide the resources by which the directed activity is required under the law is what makes it an unfunded mandate . 
we have communities throughout california that have had environmental and economic havoc wreaked upon them from the use of mtbe , in many instances , as the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 pointed out , after the knowledge was available and was continued to pursue the use of this compound as an additive to the fuels of our automobiles . 
those communities now are stuck with the costs of either cleaning up that drinking water supply , finding an alternative source and dealing with it , and they must do so . 
to suggest now that we are going to provide a safe harbor , that we are going to restrict the liability or prohibit the liability from those who knew of the dangers of this to our environment , to our drinking water supplies , to our citizens , and on the other hand , we are going to direct communities to clean this up when , in fact , the resources will not be available to do that , they are not there at the local level , and they are not forthcoming from the united states . 
mtbe is just another way in which this congress , this republican leadership , wants to corrupt the process by which these communities can be made whole . 
they want to corrupt the process by which these companies can be protected from the liability that they assumed when they knowingly did that . 
it is just a continued process of corruption of the process of this congress that we can not deal with this straight up . 
madam chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
this bill , first and foremost , should be rejected by this congress , because it is very bad for the consumers , it is a very bad deal for the taxpayers , it is lousy for the environment , and it certainly does not do much for the american economy . 
this bill is another missed opportunity to take america into the future , to take america into the leadership around the world in energy production , energy innovation , and energy technology ; to create a new generation of important products , and a new generation of jobs . 
but what this bill does not understand is that energy sufficiency and sustainability is very different from energy oil independence . 
the first is achievable in the national interest and the other is not . 
oil independence is not achievable in this bill or in any bill you can bring to the floor . 
if we were really seeking to strengthen america 's hand with respect to energy and our economy , we would do all that is possible to develop a national sustainable energy policy that would minimize our dependence on foreign oil . 
that is not this bill . 
rather than placing too much of our emphasis on new oil supplies , we would build a national energy policy that is based upon the strength of our country , rather than its weaknesses . 
those strengths are the marketplace , innovation , technology , and capital . 
if these economic forces were truly unleashed to provide a national energy policy , the role of coal and oil would be greatly diminished and would still be important , but diminished . 
america 's energy policy would evolve into one where business decisions , capital allocations , research commitments , and environmental policy would coincide to make businesses more efficient and productive , develop new products and services , would expand and cover the environment , would be easier and less expensive and clean . 
such a policy demands a synergy of most parts of national energy policy . 
to date , these ideas have been treated as a stepchild , as they are in this bill . 
to do so , the congress would have to stop thinking about energy policy as an extension of the past . 
they would have to think about it as going out to embrace the future , with american technology , american ingenuity , american talent , american capital , and the american marketplace . 
america should go out and embrace the future , rather than dumping billions and billions of dollars into trying to bring the past a little bit further forward , to bring the fossil fuels a little bit further forward . 
that is the mistake of this bill , that is the tragedy of this bill , and that is the missed opportunity . 
that is the reason why this bill does so little for the consumer . 
in fact , it harms the consumer at the pump by increasing the price of gasoline . 
that is why it is such a bad deal for the taxpayer , because the taxes are used for old production , for old ideas , not for innovation , not for the future , and not for a sustainable energy policy . 
that is why it is so bad for the environment , because they use tax policy to drive environmental decisions that otherwise would not be made and , of course , that is why it is bad for the economy , because it continues our dependence . 
in fact , it drives us deeper into the dependence on the most unstable countries in the world , into the hands of those countries that simply can not provide stable environments for the production of those energy resources . 
that is why a different policy would be about a sustainable energy policy , not trying to achieve oil independence , or foreign oil independence as this bill does . 
it is unfortunate , because what we do is we miss the opportunity to bring about what the best and the brightest prospects of america have always offered , and that is new innovation , new technologies , new discoveries , new capital formation , and a new economy . 
but this bill does not do it . 
this bill resides in the past century . 
this bill resides with the old industries . 
this bill resides with the old ideas , and it certainly resides with the old and tired subsidies that milk the taxpayers , to turn around and give them to now the most profitable companies in the american economy at this time . 
it is very unfortunate , and it should be rejected . 
mr. chairman , of all of the subsidies and all of the giveaways in this bill , this one itself may be the most egregious . 
this is royalty relief to those companies who are drilling in deep water . 
these companies are drilling in deep water no matter what they do because that is where the oil is , and it is very lucrative to do so . 
the gentleman from louisiana defends this provision saying they have a cutoff when the price of oil goes up . 
when this provision was put into law , the cutoff was $ 28 a barrel , but the secretary did not cut it off . 
when it got to $ 30 , the secretary did not cut it off . 
when it got to $ 40 and $ 45 , the secretary did not cut it off . 
when it got to $ 50 , the secretary did not cut it off . 
and today , when it is $ 52 , the secretary has not cut it off . 
this is not about royalty relief , this is about a handout to the most profitable companies in the united states . 
this is about a handout to these companies to drill the public 's oil . 
of the 132 million barrels of oil they have produced , 76 percent are royalty free . 
that means mr. and mrs. taxpayer in america did not get the royalties that these companies should have paid them to drill on the public lands that the taxpayers of this country own . 
that is why this amendment should prevail . 
the gentleman from arizona ( mr. grijalva ) xz4001620 is right . 
he is a hero to the taxpayers . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this legislation and in support of the markey/johnson amendment to protect the arctic national wildlife refuge . 
i am pleased to be an original cosponsor of the udall-eisenhower arctic wilderness act and am diametrically opposed to drilling in the refuge . 
i say this as an unabashed advocate for protecting the environment . 
as rep . 
markey recently stated , `` we must draw the line against drilling in our few remaining pristine habitats set aside specifically for preserving wildlife for future generations . 
if we allow drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge , there will be no place in america so special that it can not be opened up for commercial exploitation. '' unfortunately , the environmental ethic holds no value with this white house or a majority of my colleagues in this chamber . 
they simply do n't care . 
so let me try another tract . 
it 's one that i fear is too real a scenario and one this energy bill falls seriously short of addressing . 
today , this year , this decade , it really does n't matter , but someday and someday soon we will cross the point where world demand for oil will outpace available supply . 
the disagreement is n't about if it will occur , it 's when . 
and , when it does occur it will be a time of reckoning . 
we will have to reorient our oil-dependent economy into something less consumptive of oil . 
if the shortfall in supply takes on crisis type dimensions , the transition will be much more disruptive economically and socially . 
the one reserve we possess to ease this transition , buy us time and mitigate a crisis , is the untapped reserve thought to exist under the national arctic wildlife refuge . 
i would hate to see this reserve extracted under any circumstance , but if one day it must , let it be for better reasons than those presented today . 
i doubt there will ever be sufficient safeguards to guarantee this serengeti of the arctic can be protected once drilling starts , but if there is credence to the argument that the technology and safeguards used today are better than yesterday 's , then tomorrow 's will still be more advanced than today 's improvements . 
let 's not drill now , squander our last reserve of oil and gain nothing in improved economic security . 
unless this bill places our nation on a path toward lower levels of oil consumption , greater use of alternative fuels , greater levels of fuel efficiency and conservation , why should we advance the calendar on the day of reckoning ? 
why should we consume next year 's seed corn , when we have n't experimented with alternative diets or eating less ? 
support the markey/johnson amendment ; oppose drilling in the refuge . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of the boehlert/markey cafe standard amendment . 
when it comes to cheap energy and low gasoline prices , we have lived on borrowed time . 
as a whole our energy policies promote profligate consumption . 
the more you buy and consume the cheaper the unit price . 
the bill before us does little to wean our nation from its dependence on foreign and unstable sources of energy . 
according to doe , this nation consumes 24 percent of the world 's energy while comprising less than 7 percent of the world 's population . 
today , the world is racing to develop and catching up with our consumptive habits and standard of living . 
it 's a race that can not succeed and is unsustainable over the long term . 
i deeply regret that a majority in this congress for years blocked the department of transportation from raising the corporate average fuel efficiency standard for automobiles and trucks then , when the white house changed hands in 2001 , and perhaps confident that no real action to raise standards would occur , the restriction was no longer included as a rider in the appropriations bills . 
this short sighted policy has placed us squarely in the situation we are in today . 
had the current president 's father adopted tougher cafe standards , put us on a gradual path to 27 miles per gallon for light trucks and 34 gallons for cars , we would have displaced all oil we import from opec today . 
of course we would still be importing oil from the persian gulf , but our economy and our transportation sector and today 's auto manufacturers would not be reeling from the consequences of $ 50 barrels of oil and $ 2.35 per gallon of gasoline . 
mr. chairman , for the sake of the future of our country and our long term economic prosperity we need to wean ourselves from our dependency on oil . 
nothing is likely to have a greater impact in accomplishing this goal than making our transportation sector more fuel efficient . 
i urge my colleagues to support the boehlert-markey amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in vehement opposition to this legislation . 
two years have passed since the last time we debated a comprehensive energy bill on the house floor , but the majority appears to have learned nothing since that time . 
what we are considering today is practically the same , identical bill from last congress . 
it even has the same bill number ( h.r. 6 ) as last time , as if it were photocopied with complete indifference to the disturbing news and international developments that have come to pass in recent years . 
mr. chairman , why is oil more than $ 50 a barrel and gasoline prices averaging $ 2.28 per gallon ? 
the simple answer , demand is up and supply is limited . 
a more thorough investigation leaves one very troubled with the direction we are headed . 
while demand from the u.s. and other industrialized nations is growing on average 1.2 percent , the situation in developing nations has radically altered . 
demand for oil in these countries is now growing at an average of 2.7 percent annually . 
on its face that may not sound like a lot but it is not sustainable and is largely the cause behind the higher prices we 're encountering today . 
in china , demand for oil is growing at almost an exponential rate . 
india is n't far behind either . 
combined , these countries represent 35 percent of the world 's population . 
another sign of concern is that indonesia , a member of opec , became a net importer of oil in 2004 . 
these recent increases in worldwide oil demand are not a one-time phenomenon ; there 're here to stay and will continue to squeeze markets and push oil prices ever higher . 
the department of energy , on its own web site , even suggests that crude oil prices will continue to cost over $ 50 per barrel . 
( though they are silent on any long-term forecast. ) mr. chairman , we are an oil-based economy . 
while coal , uranium and some renewable sources such as wind comprise a majority of the fuel used to generate electricity , most of our economy is dependent or exclusively reliant on oil , from fertilizers for agriculture , plastics for manufacturing to gasoline and diesel for transportation . 
unfortunately , h.r. 6 does very little to prepare us for the day when this insatiable demand for oil outpaces world supplies . 
when that day comes , the prospect of $ 80 barrels of oil and $ 4.50 a gallon of gasoline are not unrealistic . 
some pessimistic forecasts even predict $ 200 barrels and $ 10 a gallon of gasoline . 
many experts believe that most of the world 's proven reserves have been found and that supplies will decline an average of 3 to 6 percent a year once the oil peak has been crossed . 
the oil shock caused by the arab oil embargo of 1973-74 cut supplies temporarily by 5 percent . 
the social and economic disruptions caused by this temporary disruption in supply were felt for more than a decade . 
gas prices shot up 400 percent , inflation ran rampant and was fought with double digit interest rates and unemployment climbed over 10 percent . 
are we prepared or are we preparing ourselves for some permanent downward decline in supply ? 
does this bill prepare us for this eventuality ? 
i think the answer is that it clearly does not . 
why are we rushing to exploit pristine wilderness areas like the arctic national wildlife refuge and bestowing more tax incentives on some of america 's most profitable companies and individuals to tap our last domestic sources of domestic oil and gas when these sources wo n't even make a dent in our oil and gas needs ? 
where are the incentives and subsidies to wean us from our dependency on foreign oil ? 
where are the incentives and subsidies to retool industry to alternative fuels and greater efficiency ? 
one part of our solution to the looming energy crisis is to require automobiles to be more fuel efficient . 
had we improved efficiency through higher cafe standards 27 miles for light trucks and 33 for cars back in the early 1990s , we could have displaced all the oil we imported from opec today . 
this bill is shamefully silent on that issue . 
we have been shortsighted in our energy policies , preferring to influence short-term prices , keeping them artificially low while ignoring the long-term consequences of programs and policies that promote greater consumption and profligate waste . 
when oil supplies begin their decline and prices spiral higher , our profligate waste may be our one silver bullet to respond . 
there are incredible opportunities to make industry , office buildings , homes and vehicles more fuel efficient . 
we can not sustain a situation where 6.7 percent of the world 's population continues to consume 24 percent of the world 's energy . 
( energy information administration 2002 figures : 405 quadrillion btus world -- 98 quadrillion btus u.s. ) mr. chairman , this bill is deficient and heads our country in the wrong direction . 
it rushes us closer to the day shortages occur and sets us backward on our ability to address it . 
i urge my colleagues to reject this bill . 
mr. chairman , this amendment establishes a diesel truck retrofit and fleet modernization program . 
it authorizes $ 200 million funding between 2006 and 2008 . 
this amendment is modeled after a very successful program which my colleagues and i initiated in 2001 through the gateway cities region . 
the gateway region is comprised of 27 cities throughout southern los angeles county , one of which has the highest pollution area in the state of california , that i and the gentlewoman from california ( ms. millender-mcdonald ) xz4002750 and the gentlewoman from california ( ms. linda t. snchez ) and other members represent . 
in 2000 , the gateway region was identified in a study as having some of the highest levels of toxic exposure caused by diesel emissions in that whole region . 
as you know , 80 percent of the goods received at the ports of long beach and los angeles are transported by trucks through our cities , and this traffic heavily impacts the region 's infrastructure , the quality of life , and the health of the area 's residents , particularly the young and vulnerable elderly . 
diesel engine emissions contain cancer-causing substances such as arsenic , benzene , et cetera , et cetera . 
i urge all of my colleagues to vote for the amendment . 
ms. millender-mcdonald . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i thank the support of the members for my amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise to express my appreciation to the gentleman from michigan for offering the amendment i had planned to and was designated to offer , and to the gentleman from texas for accepting the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of the oberstar-norton amendment . 
the amendment authorizes the administrator of the general services administration to install a photovoltaic solar energy system ( photovoltaics ) in accordance with the sun wall design project on the forrestal building , the headquarters building of the department of energy located on independence avenue in washington , d.c . 
the sun wall is an engineering and architectural marvel ; 24 , 750 square feet of power generating panels installed on the building 's south facing wall . 
it is also visually exciting , reaching 300 feet wide and 130 feet high . 
in fact , the sun wall design was selected as the winning design in an national contest sponsored jointly by the department of energy and the national renewable fuels laboratory . 
the project design was completed 5 years ago , in 2000 . 
the project design is ready to go . 
all that is left to do is provide funding for the project so that construction of the sun wall can begin . 
with ever rising oil prices and our country 's ever-increasing dependence on oil , the time has come for the federal government to get serious about alternative , renewable fuels . 
in fact , the time is long past overdue . 
the federal government is the nation 's largest energy consumer , a typical office building is estimated to spend one-third of its operating expenses on energy costs . 
using alternative sources of energy will help us reduce these costs . 
photovoltaics are a proven , reliable source of energy . 
simply put , photovoltaic systems convert solar energy into electricity . 
they not only reduce the consumption of fossil fuels , but they are highly efficient and have no moving parts , so the need for maintenance is virtually non-existent . 
because they emit no harmful pollutants , they are a clean , environmentally-friendly energy source . 
h.r. 6 does include provisions aimed at increasing energy efficiency in our public buildings . 
i am especially pleased to see in the bill section 205 ( regarding the procurement and installation of photovoltaics in federal buildings generally ) , which i offered , and which was accepted , as an amendment during consideration of the energy bill last congress . 
over 25 federal buildings throughout the country , from boston , massachusetts to san francisco , california , already use photovoltaics to great effect . 
we ought to add the national headquarters of the department of energy to that list . 
the sun wall project is an opportunity to have the department of energy headquarters building in our nation 's capital -- the building where energy policy is debated and refined -- stand as a testament to the utility and promise of photovoltaics . 
in a city of monuments , the sun wall project would be a monument to america 's commitment to advanced technologies , alternative energy and a cleaner environment . 
i urge my colleagues to support the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me time . 
i could well envision a procedure that would require the epa to coordinate in a consultative process with the department of energy to resolve environmental issues , but the crafters of this bill have i would say knowing the gentleman from texas not intentionally but unintentionally overreached . 
they extend this authority for the secretary of department of energy to overturn a range of federal laws . 
the corps of engineers regulates activities that would have adverse effect on navigable waters of the united states . 
private parties could locate wharves , docks , other structures in the water that would obstruct commerce ; but the corps of engineers has permitting authority that says , no , you can not do that . 
with this language , the secretary of energy could throw out a century of regulatory authority , for example , in the case where a refinery has been denied a permit to build a structure in a navigable waterway . 
the applicant would appeal to the secretary of energy who would just simply overturn the corps . 
refineries often are not located near navigable waterways to facilitate barge traffic . 
if the corps said , no , you are going to do something that is going to obstruct navigation , the secretary of energy could overturn the corps . 
i do not think that is intended , and this authority goes even further to faa and other agencies under the jurisdiction of our committee . 
it should be defeated . 
mr. chairman , as members of this house know , when i have objections to the content of a bill , i am not shy in stating them . 
there are certainly portions of this bill with which i do not agree , but i want to say that it is very unusual and it is a very pleasant experience to see a piece of legislation brought to the floor which is not so much a product of politics as it is a product of legislative craftsmanship . 
i think that is the case with this bill . 
i think that the gentleman from ohio and the gentleman from indiana working together in an absolutely bipartisan fashion have produced a bill which is obviously based on some intellectual decisions about how to approach problems rather than being based simply on political judgments , and that means that this place is performing as it should perform . 
it is not just being a political institution ; it is also being a legislative institution . 
that is happening in no small measure because of the leadership of the gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson ) xz4001800 . 
that does not mean that i do not think this bill does not fall short in some areas . 
i think that the budget resolution has made it impossible for this committee to do a number of things that it ought to be doing in the area of energy research . 
lord knows , that is important these days with rising gas prices and all of the rest ; but i just want to say in my view , despite those shortcomings , this bill demonstrates that good government is good politics . 
the gentleman has brought to the floor a bill which is extremely responsible in terms of the way it deals with the nuclear weapons issues that were referenced by the gentleman from indiana . 
it is an extremely bipartisan product . 
while i have feelings about nuclear power that are very different than some other members in this chamber , i want to say i think the gentleman has produced , with the assistance of the gentleman from indiana , a very responsible bill ; and i fully intend to support it . 
i hope as the process goes along we will wind up having more resources to deal with some of the problems that are shortchanged . 
but with that exception , i do not think we can ask for a better legislative product ; and as someone who appreciates the traditions of this house , i want to extend my personal gratitude to the gentleman from ohio for his contribution in making this the fine product that it is . 
madam chairman , i thank the distinguished gentleman from california ( mr. stark ) xz4003870 who i am very proud of for yielding me time and for his leadership . 
i want to commend four of our ranking members , the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 of the committee on energy and commerce , the gentleman from west virginia ( mr. rahall ) xz4003310 of the committee on resources , the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel ) xz4003330 of the committee on ways and means , and the gentleman from tennessee ( mr. gordon ) xz4001550 of the committee on science for their exceptional leadership in presenting an alternative view to the republican bill that is on the floor today . 
unfortunately , we will not have a democratic substitute , contrary to what the gentleman said . 
madam chairman , the american people deserve an energy policy that is worthy of the 21st century , not one mired in the policies of the past , but a bill that looks forward , not backward . 
it is imperative that our country have an energy policy for the future , and it is a matter of national security that we reduce our dependence on foreign oil so that we will be able to take care of our own security and not have to send our troops in harm 's way for oil . 
it is critical to our environment that we invest in emerging technologies and renewable energy and invest in energy efficiency and conservation . 
it is vital for our economy that our country 's economic growth is not constrained by the price of oil and that our consumers do not have to pay such a serious price at the pump for gasoline . 
the opportunity is here , really , for an energy bill that would put our country on the right path . 
but this bill that the republicans have put forth today misses that opportunity . 
instead of a positive plan for moving our country forward , the republican bill is warmed-over stew of old provisions and outdated policies . 
the republican bill is anti-consumer , anti-taxpayer , anti-environment , and with its mtbe provisions , it is harmful to children and other living things . 
the republican bill was conceived in secrecy . 
it was written with the influence of the energy lobbyists , and it shows . 
it should be rejected by this congress . 
first , this bill is anti-consumer . 
gas prices are soaring , and this bill makes matters worse . 
the price of gasoline is approaching $ 3 in some parts of our state ; and nationwide , gas prices are up 42 cents above a year ago . 
when it costs nearly $ 50 for an american worker to fill his tank , it is time for relief . 
yet it is the fifth year of the bush administration , and there has been no meaningful action to lower gas prices at the pump . 
madam chairman , according to the bush administration 's own department of energy , this republican bill will actually increase gas prices by three cents a gallon and will have almost no effect on production , consumption , or prices . 
the consumer is not served well when the public interest is not served , and the public interest is not served by this bill . 
indeed , it is a gift to the special interest . 
this bill is wrong because by its electricity provisions it fails to protect the public from enron-style fraud and abuse . 
by arbitrary caps on private spending to improve the reliability of our nation 's electricity grid , the bill goes wrong . 
it is also wrong by repealing the public utility holding company act , which protects consumers and investors from corporate abuses . 
second , the bill is anti-taxpayer , and i know that the gentleman from california ( mr. stark ) xz4003870 and some of the members of the committee on ways and means addressed some of these concerns . 
the bill is loaded with tax breaks and royalty relief for oil and gas companies . 
of $ 8.1 billion in tax incentives in the bill , $ 7.5 billion , a staggering 93 percent , is for traditional energy sources such as oil , natural gas , nuclear power , and electricity transmission . 
even president bush has said that when the price of oil is over $ 50 a barrel that the oil industry does not need relief ; and yet the president wants this bill to come to his desk from congress as soon as possible . 
democrats have better ideas . 
i particularly want to commend the gentleman from new york ( mr. bishop ) xz4000311 and the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey ) xz4002530 for their amendment to lower gas prices , promote energy efficiency , advance emerging technologies for energy efficiency and conservation and to improve consumer protection . 
this bill is anti-environment , as the gentleman from west virginia ( mr. rahall ) xz4003310 pointed out . 
it will open the arctic national wildlife refuge to oil and gas drilling , all for the sake of a 6-month supply of oil that will not even be available for 10 years . 
if this unspoiled place is not special enough to save for our grandchildren , what is ? 
once they despoil the anwr , nothing else is sacred . 
indeed , this bill makes it easier for oil drilling in protected areas off our magnificent coastlines . 
the bill contains other anti-environmental provisions , including weakening the clean air act , weakening the clean water act , weakening the safe drinking water act and the national environmental policy act . 
finally , this bill is harmful to children and all living things . 
the provision on the gasoline additive mtbe , a few drops of which can poison entire drinking water systems , the provisions in this bill for mtbe are a breathtaking example of pandering to special interests . 
instead of eliminating mtbe now , remember i said a few drops can poison entire drinking water systems , instead of eliminating it now , the bill gives the mtbe industry 9 years for a phase-out , and it would give mtbe producers liability protection in contamination lawsuits . 
okay . 
you are poisoning the water supply , you do not have to stop for 9 years , you have no liability for contamination , and on top of that , we are going to give you $ 2 billion in subsidies , $ 2 billion in subsidies to help mtbe manufacturers . 
the dirty little secret is that the mtbe industry knew all along that it would leak out of gasoline storage tanks and contaminate groundwater , but they lobbied for it to be added to our gasoline anyway . 
now they do not want to pay for the cleanup . 
they want taxpayers to pick up the tab . 
the provision on mtbe included in this bill , at the majority leader 's insistence , killed the bill in the last congress , and the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay ) xz4001040 , the majority leader , is insisting on including it again this year . 
in fact , this is the majority leader 's bill that we are debating today . 
madam chairman , it is time for us to look forward . 
it is time for an energy policy worthy of the 21st century . 
this republican energy bill is clearly designed to help energy companies make more money , not to help americans consumers save money . 
i urge my colleagues to stand up for a forward-looking energy bill to ensure our national security , to grow our economy , to protect our environment , and to keep our water and air safe for our children . 
i urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on the democratic amendments for an energy policy for the future , and i urge my colleagues to `` just say no '' to the gentleman from texas ' ( mr. delay ) xz4001040 disgraceful mtbe giveaway and his outdated boondoggle of an energy bill . 
mr. chairman , i thank the distinguished gentlewoman from california for yielding me this time , and i thank her for her leadership on protecting the environment and the health of america 's children . 
i particularly commend her for her resourcefulness in bringing this amendment to the floor . 
because of a letter dated april 19 from the congressional budget office which deems the mtbe giveaway an unfunded mandate , the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 was able to bring this amendment to the floor . 
i thank the gentlewoman from california . 
it is important to all who care about the health of our children . 
i rise in support of the gentlewoman from california 's amendment to strike , really , this disgraceful mtbe giveaway , and i commend her for seizing the opportunity to offer this amendment . 
mr. chairman , as we discussed yesterday in general debate , a few drops of mtbe can poison an entire drinking water system . 
but the industry lobbied for mtbe to be added to gasoline , anyway . 
the dirty little secret is that the industry knew all along that mtbe could leak out of gasoline storage tanks and contaminate groundwater . 
in fact , there was a deliberate attempt by the mtbe producers to hide the groundwater impacts of their product from congress . 
today , communities across america are suffering the effects of mtbe . 
mtbe contamination of groundwater and surface water is a major problem in my state of california , and many drinking water wells have had to be shut down because of this contaminant . 
mtbe contamination has been detected in all 50 states , and a recent study indicates that it costs between $ 12 billion and $ 63 billion to clean it up . 
it will cost between $ 12 billion and $ 63 billion to clean it up , to clean up something that the industry knew was dirty to begin with and withheld information about that from congress . 
not surprisingly , the mtbe producers and the big oil companies want to be protected from liability for contaminating our drinking water supplies . 
and not surprisingly , tom delay and house republicans are happy to oblige . 
the gentleman from texas insisted on the mtbe provision in the last congress , even at the cost of killing the energy bill . 
he insisted on it again this year . 
in fact , this is the majority leader 's bill we are debating today . 
instead of eliminating mtbe now , the republican energy bill gives 9 years for a phaseout , 9 years of mtbe leaking into our water supply . 
and a loophole in this very law may even allow mtbe to be used indefinitely . 
it gives mtbe producers liability protection in contamination lawsuits , and it gives a $ 2 billion subsidy to mtbe manufacturers . 
let me repeat : this is a contaminant , a small supply of which can poison a water supply . 
and this bill is giving the manufacturers 9 years to phase it out and a loophole that may even make the use of mtbe indefinite . 
it is saying that you have no liability , mtbe manufacturers , for contamination , no liability , long term to phase out , if ever ; and third of all , we are going to fund it . 
for $ 2 billion , we are going to give a subsidy to mtbe manufacturers . 
according to the republican congress , the punishment for polluting the groundwater , if you pollute our groundwater , you get $ 2 billion . 
that is your gift for contaminating our groundwater . 
republicans are not even giving mtbe polluters a slap on the wrist . 
they are giving them a pat on the back . 
but in their attempt to shield mtbe producers and big oil companies from accountability , republicans have created a huge unfunded mandate for states and localities , and it is taxpayers who are stuck with the bill . 
remember unfunded mandates ? 
was that not principle number one of the contract with america , no unfunded mandates ? 
here it is . 
the cbo , the congressional budget office , nonpartisan cbo , says that this amounts to an unfunded mandate . 
that is why the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 was able to get this amendment made in order under the rules . 
and then in their attempts to shield mtbe producers and big oil companies from accountability , republicans have created this unfunded mandate , which is called such by the national water resources association , the american public works association , western coalition of arid states , american water works association , the association of metropolitan water agencies , the national association of towns and townships , the national association of counties , the national league of cities , the u.s. conference of mayors . 
these organizations say that this provision agrees with the congressional budget office that it amounts to a massive unfunded mandate on local governments and citizens . 
republicans used to oppose these , as i mentioned ; and the rules of the house still allow us to strike them . 
i thank the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 . 
i urge my colleagues to support the capps amendment and to demand accountability and to stop the outrageous mtbe giveaway . 
mr. chairman , i ask my colleagues to join us today in defeating the previous question so that we can bring back a rule that will allow us to debate an amendment that would increase funding for research and development for new energy technologies by $ 250 million . 
yesterday , congresswoman allyson schwartz of pennsylvania , requested a waiver from the rules committee so that she could offer this amendment on the floor , but she was denied that opportunity . 
mr. chairman , for 4 years now , the republicans in congress have brought us an energy policy bill that provides billions in subsidies to traditional energy industries already reaping record profits . 
according to the new york times , the top 10 biggest oil companies earned more than $ 100 billion last year , and their combined sales are expected to exceed $ 1 trillion , which is more than canada 's gross domestic product . 
just a few weeks ago , republican leaders brought to the house floor an energy bill that devoted 93 percent of its tax incentives to oil , gas and other traditional energy industries , and only 7 percent for renewable energy and investments in new technologies . 
it is time for a new direction . 
a democratic energy plan would set us on a faster course toward energy independence by investing more of our valuable resources in clean , renewable energy resources , promoting new emerging technologies , developing greater efficiency and improving energy conservation . 
today , we are fortunate to have a number of promising technologies that offer new ways to generate energy and improve energy efficiency . 
but these investments are just a beginning , and will need our commitment in future years to sustain the innovations and investment levels needed to truly establish a sound energy economy for the 21st century . 
the hydrogen economy may be a worthy goal , but its benefits may not be realized until mid-century . 
and while hydrogen may eventually play a major role in replacing gasoline in our cars and trucks , the sources of energy to generate hydrogen must begin accelerated development now . 
the schwartz amendment would not choose any particular type of technology . 
instead , it would distribute resource across multiple technologies and use them to generate multi-year development and deployment projects , support research and development competitive grants , and increase deployment of existing and new energy conservation measures . 
for example , the national academy of sciences examined the possible benefits of an aggressive investment in solid state lighting . 
today , lighting constitutes 30 percent of all energy use in buildings in the united states . 
the academy study found that an investment of $ 50 million a year for 10 years would result in a $ 50 billion savings between now and 2050 . 
that is a return of 100 to one for the u.s. economy . 
another excellent example -- fuel cells -- offer potential benefits in vehicles and stationary applications . 
fuel cells are essential to a hydrogen energy economy and also have a vital role to play in other areas . 
again , the national academy of sciences study found that a sustained investment of roughly $ 500 million over the coming decade is likely to produce benefits as much as $ 40 billion through 2025 . 
the government has an essential role to play in research and development . 
unless a business can make a reasonable return on its research investment , it can not afford to invest in r & amp ; d . 
and unless the business is a monopoly , this requires the r & amp ; d to lead to a patent on a device or a process that can be marketed . 
applied research yields benefits that are too diffuse to be captured by anyone company . 
so the federal government collects funds from a broad base of beneficiaries -- the taxpayers -- and invests in research and development that otherwise would never happen . 
almost all such funding is through appropriation bills -- the energy and water bill being one good example . 
mr. chairman , we are the world leader in technical innovation . 
from the light bulb to the space program to the internet , the u.s. has led the way . 
we have built the world 's largest economy on the inventiveness of our citizens and our willingness to make the investment needed to advance our society . 
the fundamental nature of our free society has always been the key to our achievement . 
science , engineering , and technology have enabled us to build our modern nation , and now we need to use these tools aggressively to increase our energy security , improve the lives of our citizens , and power us in the 21st century . 
i call on members to defeat the previous question so we might consider an alternative rule that would allow congresswoman schwartz to offer her amendment during the debate on funding energy priorities today . 
madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i rise in opposition to the pending legislation , surprise , because it will do absolutely nothing to lower the price of motor fuel and reduce america 's dependence on foreign oil . 
this legislation is antitaxpayer , anticonsumer , and antienvironmental . 
it is social security for the oil industry . 
we have before us a bill that squanders what could have been a bold stroke for american energy independence . 
it could have been visionary , and it could have been daring in developing new energy technologies and fuel sources . 
instead , we have before us a bill which contains a litany of various tax breaks and polluter protections for energy producers who are already experiencing record profits at the expense of the american public . 
the bill contains $ 8 billion in tax breaks , largely for well-heeled oil and gas conglomerates who are already milking our constituents at the pump . 
in the resources title alone , cbo says there is nearly a half a billion dollars of direct spending to subsidize the oil and gas industry over the next 10 years . 
to put it bluntly , if the taxpayer is feeling the pain of an energy crisis , it is coming from the derrick sticking out of his back pocket , and this measure does nothing to ease it . 
even president bush recently stated , `` i will tell you , with $ 55 oil , we do n't need incentives to oil and gas companies to explore . 
there are plenty of incentives. '' these are president bush 's own words . 
but has that stopped the republican majority from bestowing such largesse on some of their biggest benefactors ? 
of course not . 
because when one pulls the curtain aside on this bill , what we find is a wacky old fellow pulling the manipulating levers , reaching deep into the treasury and deep into the pockets of ordinary americans . 
this bill , as i said , could have been a bold stroke , but it missed that mark . 
it ignores coal , america 's most abundant energy resource . 
it pays mere lip service to coal . 
there is nothing here that would actually encourage an electric utility to install or invest in clean coal technology . 
there is nothing here that would advance bona fide technologies for coal gasification or liquefaction to run our factories and vehicles . 
and , to add insult to injury , the single substantive coal provision in this bill favors western federal coal , primarily in the powder river basin of wyoming , over all other coals . 
it would give federal coal from that region an artificial , competitive advantage to the detriment of coal producers and consumers in other states . 
already , this western coal has infiltrated utility markets traditionally served by appalachian and midwestern producers . 
to now provide these producers of federal coal with special treatment in the form of relief from competitive bidding and the payments of royalties is unseemly and has no part in what is supposed to be a national energy policy bill . 
it is , in effect , a direct assault upon all other coal , including coal from my home state of west virginia , and it is a direct assault on consumers , jobs , and the economy and the communities which rely on coal from states like west virginia who are not given special treatment under this provision . 
yet , under the rule governing debate on this bill , i was denied the ability to offer an amendment to strike this provision , an effort that came very close to succeeding when the house last considered this bill . 
could it be that because i came so close to knocking it out of this bill on the house floor of the last congress i was denied that opportunity this year ? 
could it be because the republican leadership fears debate on this provision and will only allow amendments that they can bet the house will fail to pass ? 
all of this , all of it is why every newspaper in my congressional district that has editorialized on this bill has editorialized against this bill . 
we are engaging in an exercise of microwave legislating today . 
the republican leadership has hauled out the remains of last year 's freeze-dried energy bill and are seeking to warm it up for yet another taxpayer-financed feast . 
the people of america will not be played for fools . 
they will not be made to believe that all of our energy problems will go away if we simply grant misplaced and inappropriate tax cuts to energy fat cats , and if we allow polluters to get off the hook and shortchange the health and safety protections of our citizens . 
i urge a no vote on the bill . 
madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
madam chairman , i yield 4 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from california ( mr. george miller ) xz4002780 , the distinguished former chairman of the committee on resources . 
madam chairman , i yield the remainder of my time to the gentleman from washington ( mr. inslee ) xz4001930 , a valued member of our resources committee . 
mr. chairman , and both sides of the aisle , i stand with president bush on this issue . 
the president has said , `` with oil at more than $ 50 a barrel , by the way , energy companies do not need taxpayer-funded incentives to explore for oil and gas. '' that was president george w. bush in the washington post , april 21 , 2005 . 
this amendment protects the taxpayer . 
this amendment is vital to restore some semblance of sanity to this legislation . 
to my colleagues from the gulf states i would say , vote for this amendment if you also support the provisions in h.r. 6 to distribute $ 500 million in ocs revenues to coastal states and to redirect $ 2 billion in ocs to alter deep water research . 
if you support that , you simply can not have it both ways . 
there will not be revenue enough for you to distribute if we do not collect the royalties on ocs production . 
i urge my colleagues , and from the gulf states especially , to support this amendment , and also i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle , support president bush on this . 
mr. chairman , as a member of the appropriations committee , i rise in support of the fiscal year 2006 energy and water bill . 
i want to thank chairman hobson and ranking member visclosky for their hard work in drafting this bill . 
i also want to acknowledge both the majority and minority staff for their dedication . 
i can appreciate the tough choices that both chairman hobson and ranking member visclosky had to make with the tight allocation for this bill . 
i believe they have made choices with the best interests of improving u.s. water infrastructure and advancing energy programs in mind . 
those decisions were not easy , but this bill is the best we can do under the budget constraints . 
i urge all of my colleagues to vote in favor of the fy 2006 energy and water appropriations act . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the legislation . 
mr. chairman , protecting our environment and promoting energy independence are two of the most important jobs i have as a member of congress . 
unfortunately , the bill before us today represents a real missed opportunity to reduce our dependence on foreign oil , promote energy efficiency and conservation , and improve our air , land and water quality . 
for decades , our country has lacked a national energy policy . 
while i did not agree with the administration 's energy plan , i was grateful president bush put forward a comprehensive proposal . 
the president 's energy plan was superior to the severely flawed bill before us today . 
we had a chance to devise a forward-looking energy policy that would have increased fuel efficiency , made polluters ( including mtbe producers ) pay for harming our environment , and advanced a renewable portfolio standard . 
instead what we have is quite a bad bill . 
instead of creating a balanced energy policy that provides incentives to make renewable energy more affordable and widely available , we are making fiscally irresponsible and environmentally-reckless decisions for the benefit of a few profitable industries that do n't need this kind of help from taxpayers . 
i fail to understand why the major thrust of the bill 's tax provisions involve further subsidizing the fossil fuel industry , rather than providing incentives for conservation and renewable sources of energy . 
these are enormously profitable industries operating in a time of record energy prices . 
clearly , these profits demonstrate the market has already provided the fossil fuel industries with sufficient incentive to increase production . 
i strongly oppose a provision in the bill that allows for the permanent activation of the cross sound cable . 
in doing so , the bill subverts the regulatory process and ignores sound environmental policy regarding the depth at which the cable should be buried . 
in addition to its environmental shortsightedness , i also oppose provisions in this bill related to energy transmission . 
for instance , the energy policy act allows the federal electric regulatory commission ( ferc ) to preempt state siting authorities when it is determined that a high-voltage power line is of `` national significance , '' and overrides state authorities when expanding or siting new liquefied natural gas ( lng ) terminals . 
in our own long island sound just off connecticut , this is a very real possibility . 
while energy security is a national issue , it seems to me the communities who will live with these siting decisions deserve a voice in the process . 
finally , i strongly oppose opening the arctic national wildlife refuge to drilling . 
we simply wo n't have a world to live in if we continue our neglectful ways . 
in my judgment , it would be far better to develop prudent and lasting alternate fuel energies than to risk irreparable damage to the wilderness of one of north america 's most beautiful frontiers . 
drilling in the arctic will not fix our energy problems -- with so little oil available up there it could n't possibly , as it will take a decade to get the oil down here . 
that time would be far better spent developing clean , renewable energy sources that will provide infinite energy without imperiling our last remaining wilderness areas . 
i look forward to the day when we will have an opportunity to vote for a fiscally-prudent , environmentally-responsible national energy policy . 
today is not that day . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the markey-johnson amendment to protect the alaska national wildlife refuge . 
the coastal plain of anwr is the last major part of the north slope that has not been developed . 
in my judgment , it would be far better to develop prudent and lasting alternate fuel energies than to risk irreparable damage to the wilderness of one of north america 's most beautiful frontiers . 
the reason the anwr `` solution '' seems so simple is because it 's too good to be true . 
it wo n't fix our energy problems -- with so little oil available up there , it could n't possibly , as it will take a decade to get the oil down here . 
that time would be far better spent developing clean , renewable energy sources that will provide infinite energy without imperiling our last remaining wilderness areas . 
even a modest increase in cafe standards would save more oil than would be produced by drilling in anwr . 
we simply wo n't have a world to live in if we continue our neglectful ways . 
what we really need to ask ourselves is : how can we square legitimate environmental concerns with our expanding energy needs ? 
mr. chairman , drilling in the arctic refuge is the wrong answer to the right question . 
i urge my colleagues to vote yes on the markey-johnson amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the markey-boehlert , et al amendment . 
people used to own slaves and we look back and say how could they ? 
future generations will say we destroyed the environment and how could we ? 
let us conserve , let us see oil prices go down as we stop wasting what we have . 
suvs , mini-vans , and trucks need to get better mileage ; and we need to tell the automobile manufacturers to make this happen . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the support of the amendment to reduce our consumption of oil by increasing fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks . 
this amendment requires the department of transportation to raise fuel economy standards for automobiles from today 's average of 25 miles per gallon to 33 miles per gallon by 2015 . 
under this amendment , the administrator of the national highway transportation safety administration will have maximum flexibility in how the standards are set . 
the standard could be increased for cars or suvs or only the heaviest trucks . 
mr. chairman , i agree with those who say , `` we can not conserve our way out of this energy problem. '' however , until we raise cafe standards , we can not honestly tell the american people this is a balanced energy plan . 
it is absolutely imperative we are more efficient and make better use of our precious resources . 
this is a common sense amendment , which represents a modest step forward in our nation 's efforts to become more energy efficient . 
our amendment will help protect the environment , reduce our dependence on foreign oil and save drivers money at the pump . 
the united states can not continue on a course of increased oil consumption with little to no regard for the implications it has on our environment , economy and national security . 
there is no better time to focus on reducing our reliance on foreign oil than right now . 
increased fuel efficiency standards and tax incentives for conservation and renewable energy sources should be at the heart of our national energy policy in a post-september 11 world . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time . 
i support the castle-markey amendment and would say to my fellow republicans , if this is the party that believes in local government and decisions being made on the local level and the state level as opposed to the federal level , you would be supporting this amendment . 
it seems absolutely clear as can be to me that if you do not give authority , some authority , and rights to states and local communities , you are going to have companies come in and bully their way because they will not have to be answerable . 
they will not have to work out problems with their states and local governments . 
they will just have the capability to advise , and advice means very little . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the castle-markey-shays-andrews amendment , striking the liquefied natural gas ( lng ) siting language contained in section 320 of h.r. 6 . 
there are risks as well as benefits associated with the siting and expansion of lng terminals in populated areas . 
it is essential states be able to evaluate their effect on sensitive coastal areas . 
in long island sound just off connecticut , there is a very real possibility that a facility will be sited with little to no state or local input . 
we propose an amendment to restore the role of state and local authority in citing decisions . 
states and localities should be able to maintain the ability to review and impact decisions that could pose serious environmental and health hazards to its coastal areas and its citizens . 
my party has always believed state and local governments know best what works in their communities . 
mr. chairman , while energy security is a national issue , it seems to me , local communities , who will live with our decisions far into the future , deserve a voice in the decision-making process . 
mr. chairman , on april 21 , i inadvertently missed a recorded vote . 
i take my voting responsibility very seriously and would like the congressional record to reflect that i would have voted `` yes '' on recorded vote number 130 . 
mr. speaker , i appreciate that we are debating a rule , for a change , that provides members of the house a chance to offer their ideas about how we can improve the country 's energy policies . 
we had almost 90 amendments submitted to the committee on rules and we were granted 30 of them . 
i think we can still do better than that , but it sure is better than last week 's closed rule on the bankruptcy bill . 
in fact , this rule even makes an amendment in order that i offered . 
i think it is the first one i have gotten in about 9 years , and i do want to tell my colleagues that i am happy to have it , because it will save the government a lot of money . 
i urge my colleagues to closely follow the debate we are having on this bill today and tomorrow because , in its current form , i believe it has the wrong priorities . 
at a time when oil companies are enjoying record profits , the bill gives billions of dollars in new subsidies . 
it gives 94 percent of its benefits to the oil and gas industry , and only 6 percent to conservation and renewable energy efforts , which are the areas that really make the country energy independent . 
this brand of taxpayer-funded corporate welfare is so off the mark that even president bush , a former energy executive himself , recently stated that oil companies have all the incentives they need to keep on drilling in the form of $ 50 a barrel crude . 
americans already are shelling out their hard-earned cash for the most expensive gasoline in our history . 
we should not ask them to give out even more in the form of corporate giveaways for the oil companies . 
one of the things we will hear today and that we have been hearing for years now is that the way to reduce our use of foreign oil is to drill in the arctic national wildlife refuge in alaska . 
we hear claims that in a few years , anwr will be producing 10 billion barrels a day and all of our problems will be solved . 
well , mr. speaker , the governor of alaska says he does not know if there is any oil in there at all . 
now , i know we have debated this issue before , but take another look at it , because recent press reports expose the anwr drilling issue for the political trojan horse that it is . 
the new york times reported in february , and i will submit this for the record , that the oil companies do not think there is much , or any , marketable oil in the arctic refuge . 
back in the 1980s , they drilled a couple of test holes in anwr , and they certainly were not very excited about what they found , because even though they have held the results close to their chests , two of the companies that drilled those holes have pulled out of going to anwr . 
in fact , they are saying that that is of no use to them . 
over the past several years , chevron texaco , british petroleum , and conocophilips have all withdrawn from the group that lobbies for drilling in anwr . 
so if the major oil companies , the people who are the experts in the field , the folks we depend on to do the drilling , if they do not think there is oil there , then why are we doing it ? 
because it is a trojan horse . 
they claim if they do not have the right to drill in anwr , they will not have any right to drill where the oil really is , and that is off the coast of florida , off the coast of california , and in the gulf of mexico , which is where they really want to go . 
so pay close attention here because if this passes , the next oil exploration may be in your backyard . 
the material previously referred to follows : big oil steps aside in battle over arctic washington , feb . 
20 -- george w. bush first proposed drilling for oil in a small part of the arctic national wildlife refuge in alaska in 2000 , after oil industry experts helped his presidential campaign develop an energy plan . 
five years later , he is pushing the proposal again , saying the nation urgently needs to increase domestic production . 
but if mr. bush 's drilling plan passes in congress after what is expected to be a fierce fight , it may prove to be a triumph of politics over geology . 
once allied , the administration and the oil industry are now far apart on the issue . 
the major oil companies are largely uninterested in drilling in the refuge , skeptical about the potential there . 
even the plan 's most optimistic backers agree that any oil from the refuge would meet only a tiny fraction of america 's needs . 
while democrats have repeatedly blocked the drilling plan , many legislators believe it has its best chance of passage this year , because of a republican-led white house and congress and tighter energy supplies . 
though the oil industry is on the sidelines , the president still has plenty of allies . 
the alaska congressional delegation is eager for the revenue and jobs drilling could provide . 
other legislators favor exploring the refuge because more promising prospects , like drilling off the coasts of florida or california , are not politically palatable . 
and many republicans hope to claim opening the refuge to exploration as a victory in the long-running conflict between development interests and environmentalists . 
the refuge is a symbol of that larger debate , said senator lisa murkowski , an alaska republican who is a major supporter of drilling . 
opponents agree . 
`` this is the no . 
1 environmental battle of the decade , '' said representative edward j. markey , democrat of massachusetts . 
whether that battle will be worthwhile , though , is not clear . 
neither advocates nor critics can answer a crucial question : how much oil lies beneath the wilderness where the administration wants to permit drilling ? 
advocates cite a 1998 government study that estimated the part of the refuge proposed for drilling might hold 10 billion barrels of oil . 
but only one test well has been drilled , in the 1980 's , and its results are one of the industry 's most closely guarded secrets . 
a bush adviser says the major oil companies have a dimmer view of the refuge 's prospects than the administration does . 
`` if the government gave them the leases for free they would n't take them , '' said the adviser , who would speak only anonymously because of his position . 
`` no oil company really cares about anwr , '' the adviser said , using an acronym for the refuge , pronounced `` an-war. '' wayne kel1ey , who worked in alaska as a petroleum engineer for halliburton , the oil services corporation , and is now managing director of rsk , an oil consulting company , said the refuge 's potential could `` only be determined by drilling. '' `` the enthusiasm of government officials about anwr exceeds that of industry because oil companies are driven by market forces , investing resources in direct proportion to the economic potential , and the evidence so far about anwr is not promising , '' mr. kelley said . 
the project has long been on mr. bush 's agenda . 
when he formulated a national energy policy during the 2000 campaign he turned to the oil industry for help . 
heading the effort was hunter hunt , a top executive of the hunt oil company , based in dallas . 
the bush energy advisers endorsed opening a small part -- less than 10 percent of the 19-million-acre refuge -- to oil exploration , an idea first proposed more than two decades ago . 
the refuge , their report stated , `` could eventually produce more than the amount of oil the united states now imports from iraq. '' the plan criticized president bill clinton 's energy policies , both in the middle east , where most of the world 's oil lies , and in the united states . 
in 1995 mr. clinton vetoed legislation that authorized leasing in the alaska refuge . 
an earlier opportunity to open it collapsed after oil spilled into alaskan waters in 1989 from the exxon valdez . 
subsequent efforts , including one in mr. bush 's first term , also failed . 
mr. hunt , through an aide , declined an interview request . 
others who advised mr. bush on his energy plan said including the refuge was seen as a political maneuver to open the door to more geologically promising prospects off the coasts of california and florida . 
those areas , where tests have found oil , have been blocked for years by federal moratoriums because of political and environmental concerns . 
`` if you ca n't do anwr , '' said matthew r. simmons , a houston investment banker for the energy industry and a bush adviser in 2000 , `` you 'll never be able to drill in the promising areas. '' shortly after assuming office , mr. bush asked vice president dick cheney to lead an examination of energy policy . 
a may 2001 report by a task force mr. cheney assembled echoed many of mr. bush 's campaign promises , including opening up part of the refuge . 
the report called for further study of the gulf of mexico and other areas . 
the next year , mr. bush said `` our national security makes it urgent '' to explore the refuge . 
by then , the industry was moving in the opposite direction . 
in 2002 bp withdrew financial support from arctic power , a lobbying group financed by the state of alaska , after an earlier withdrawal by chevron texaco . 
bp , long active in alaska , later moved its team of executives to houston from alaska , a company executive said . 
`` we 're leaving this to the american public to sort out , '' said ronnie chappell , a bp spokesman , of the refuge . 
about a year ago , conocophillips also stopped its financial support for arctic power , said kristi a. desjarlais , a company spokeswoman . 
ms. desjarlais said her company had a `` conceptual interest '' in the refuge but `` a more immediate interest in opportunities elsewhere. '' other companies have taken similar positions . 
george l. kirkland , an executive vice president of chevron texaco , said a still-banned section in the gulf of mexico , where the company has already drilled , was of more immediate interest . 
exxonmobil also has shown little public enthusiasm for the refuge . 
lee r. raymond , the chairman and chief executive , said in an television interview last december , `` i do n't know if there is anything in anwr or not. '' for the interior department , however , the refuge is the best land-based opportunity to find new oil . 
any lease revenues , estimated by the department to be $ 2.4 billion in 2007 , would be split between the federal and state governments . 
advocates say oil production could reach one million barrels per day . 
in a decade from now , when the site might be fully developed , that would be about 4 percent of american consumption , according to federal forecasts . 
david l. bernhardt , deputy chief of staff to the secretary of the interior , cited a 1998 study by the united states geological survey estimating that the refuge might hold 10.4 billion barrels of recoverable oil . 
( the estimate for offshore oil is 76 billion barrels. ) but that study has significant weaknesses , which mr. bernhardt acknowledged . 
its estimates are of `` petroleum resources '' -- potential oil deposits -- instead of `` petroleum reserves , '' which refers to oil that has been discovered . 
ken bird , a geological survey official who worked on the study , said the federal geologists did not have access to test data from the only exploratory well drilled on the refuge , by chevron texaco and bp in the 1980 's . 
an official with one of the companies , speaking anonymously because of the confidentiality of the test , said that if the results had been encouraging the company would be more engaged in the political effort to open the refuge . 
there has not been much discussion about the refuge between the companies and the bush administration , according to industry and government officials . 
`` i do n't think i 've talked to the oil industry over the last several years about the economic potential of anwr , '' mr. bernhardt said . 
the relationship between the administration and the oil industry has been a flashpoint for critics of mr. bush . 
democrats , upset that mr. cheney refused to disclose information about his task force meetings with industry executives , see a cozy alliance . 
their concerns are heightened because of the former ties between the industry and mr. bush and mr. cheney and the administration 's stance on issues like climate change . 
the president once headed a small exploration company , and mr. cheney previously was chief executive of halliburton . 
`` big oil , '' senator john kerry said in last year 's presidential campaign , now calls `` the white house their home. '' some industry executives say their views are more aligned with those of republicans on a broad range of issues including regulation , the environment and energy supply , and they were heartened by the initial pronouncements of the bush administration . 
but some say they feel let down by mr. bush 's inability to lift bans on oil exploration . 
`` when this administration came in , the president and the vice president recognized there was a problem of energy supply and demand , '' said tom fry , the executive director of the national offshore industries association . 
but mr. cheney 's task force , mr. fry said , talked only about offshore drilling as something to be studied . 
`` they never say they will lift the moratoria , '' he said . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
in 1998 congress set a goal for 2005 to improve the energy efficiency in congressional buildings by 20 percent . 
and i know that the architect of the capitol has been working very hard to reach the goal . 
however , we have not . 
yet the skyrocketing gasoline prices remind us that we must do more for conservation . 
i am disappointed that the underlying legislation gives 94 percent of its benefits to the oil and gas industry and only 6 percent to conservation and renewable efforts . 
my amendment , i think , is a good start at least on some conservation . 
it would simply require that any new escalator being installed in federal buildings to be an intermittent escalator . 
these have been in use in europe for 30 or 40 years ; and i know that when i first saw one , i could hardly believe it . 
it does not begin until the passenger steps on a pad entering into the escalator and stops when the passengers are off . 
we would save about 40 percent of the fuel costs , the electricity costs , the energy costs . 
but in addition to that , what we would save simply on the wear and tear , the pure mechanics of the escalator , probably would be even higher than the energy savings . 
mr. chairman , the traditional escalators are used more than 90 billion times a year in the united states ; and with more than 30 , 000 of them across the country , escalators move more people than airplanes . 
and since almost all of them are out of order a good percentage of the time , we know that it is important that we do something to conserve that kind of money and the investment we have made in the escalators . 
as i pointed out , the amount of energy consumed is estimated to be 260 million kilowatts an hour , which we would save a cost to the nation , if all of them were intermittent , of $ 260 million a year . 
i want to quote an analyst at lawrence livermore national laboratory . 
the intermittent escalators , says lawrence livermore , are 40 to 50 percent more energy efficient than traditional escalators . 
this was borne out by a case study supplied to me from the german embassy , which found 40 percent savings in germany . 
energy can be particularly saved when the escalator is used only during rush hours . 
replacing all of them would save us an awful lot of money , but this bill does not replace them all . 
it simply requires that new escalators be of the intermittent variety . 
and i strongly hope that we will accept this amendment this evening as part of this energy bill . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i thank the gentleman very much for his support . 
i appreciate that . 
and if it is all right with the chairman , i will inundate him with that information between now and then . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , on rollcall no . 
117 , had i been present , i would have voted `` aye . '' mr. chairman , today i rise in opposition to the energy bill . 
the bill limits states ' rights to protect their water supplies and protect their air quality , risks the public health of our working families , and leaves our states to pick up the tab for contamination . 
first , the bill puts important groundwater supplies at risk by allowing diesel fuel and other contaminants to be injected into the ground with no oversight by epa . 
second , supporters of the bill refuse to take steps to prevent leaks into the groundwater from underground storage tanks by rejecting attempts to require new replacement storage tanks near drinking water wells or sensitive areas to be secondarily contained . 
third , the bill would make states weaken programs to prevent leaks during fuel delivery or risk losing federal cleanup funds . 
finally , the language unnecessarily targets poor and underserved communities for the unrestricted siting of new refineries . 
together , all these actions are environmental and public health injustices . 
while the bill benefits corporate america , it leaves communities like mine with more contaminated groundwater , increases the cost of cleanup borne by taxpayers and water providers , and increases the risks to public health for all americans . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
today i rise to offer my amendment to strike the refinery revitalization provisions in h.r. 6 . 
the refinery revitalization provisions are the biggest environmental and public health injustices that the congress and bush administration can perpetrate on the american people . 
the bill would strip our states and communities and local air boards and other federal agencies of existing authorities and give these authorities to the department of energy . 
the energy czar is then required to establish refinery revitalization zones in more than 1 , 200 counties and , in each instance , can veto our states and communities . 
this language is crafted on false premises . 
in two separate letters in the summer and fall of 2004 , the epa stated that it was not aware of any pending permits under the public health laws we are undermining . 
according to the 2005 energy information administration 's annual energy outlook , refining capacity is expected to grow through 2025 under existing laws . 
the refinery revitalization provisions are opposed by a wide variety of groups . 
the following are 15 national entities representing public entities , health care entities and civil rights organizations : the national association of counties , the national conference of state legislatures , the national league of cities , the u.s. conference of mayors , the environmental council of states , the state and territorial air pollution program administrators , the association of local pollution control officials , the south coast air quality management district in california , all major environmental and public health groups including the league of conservation voters , the national hispanic environmental council , the national council of la raza , and the league of united latin american citizens . 
most of the neighborhoods in refinery communities are low-income minority communities with the least availability to defend themselves from corporate pollution , and most are vulnerable to environmental and public health problems , yet are targets in this very language . 
more than 70 percent of latinos and african americans live in counties with dirty air . 
latino children have asthma at a much higher rate than non-latino children , and death rates from asthma among african americans are 2.5 time higher than for whites . 
yet this language would put the department of energy in charge of protecting our health . 
perhaps before we harm the health of most underserved populations , before we strip states and communities of their rights to protect themselves , and before we turn a good part of this nation into a refinery revitalization zone , perhaps we should have a real dialogue , that would have tremendous impacts in our communities , that would truly represent those concerns and voices we represent . 
i urge my colleagues to support my amendment to protect our communities and support the amendment to strike this egregious language . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i would like to inquire how much time is remaining . 
mr. chairman , i yield for a unanimous consent request to the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich ) xz4002270 to allow him to enter his statement into the record . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 1/4 minutes to the gentleman from minnesota ( mr. oberstar ) xz4002990 . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , i also rise to support the capps amendment to eliminate mtbe , the safe harbor liability . 
the provision , as many of my colleagues know , is an unfunded mandate on our communities and water providers . 
in fact , i will submit for the record a list of 10 of those major organizations in opposition to the mtbe liability waiver . 
the u.s. conference of mayors , national league of cities , national association of counties , and the national association of towns and townships are all opposed to shielding these folks . 
in addition to that , i would like to tell my colleagues that right now as it stands , we are not paying for sufficient cleanup as it is of underground storage tanks where we know mtbe is leaking . 
we are doing a foul job on behalf of the american public . 
approximately 136 , 000 leaks are not being addressed right now , and epa anticipates that over the next decade anywhere from 6 , 000 to 12 , 000 new leaks will occur each year . 
who is going to get caught with the tab to clean that up ? 
guess who ? 
our local townships , our local municipalities , our states , and the public . 
despite the need to clean up funds through epa , we know that this is a wrong decision . 
we need to work this out . 
we need to make sure that we support the capps amendment and that we do everything we can to educate the public of the harmful effects of mtbe , because in the state of california , we are plagued with having to clean up this water . 
we have higher standards there . 
we should be looking at models , models from other states . 
just as the republicans used to agree that local control was a primary factor in their agenda back in the 1990s , now they are saying it does not cut it anymore . 
our colleagues have to be clear . 
they have to understand that there is something very wrong with this system and that the public is crying out for elected officials like ourselves to say , this must stop . 
do not hold the taxpayers liable for the corporations that are actually polluting our water . 
mr. chairman , i wholeheartedly support my colleague , ms. capps ' , amendment to eliminate the mtbe safe harbor liability shield . 
this provision is an unfunded mandate on our communities and water providers who will be left holding the tab while the polluters cash in . 
our communities and those organizations representing them oppose this language . 
these include : the u.s. conference of mayors , the national league of cities , the national association of counties , the national association of towns and townships , the association of metropolitan water agencies , the american water works association , the association of california water agencies , the western coalition of arid states , the american public works association , and the national water resources association . 
supporters of this language , like the national petrochemical and refiners association , claim that 96 percent of cleanups are paid for by the responsible parties , insurance companies , or state cleanup funds , and that future cleanup funds will be adequately paid for . 
similarly , supporters also believe that the funding this bill authorizes through the leaking underground storage tank trust fund will be sufficient to pay for cleanups . 
what supporters are ignoring is that the existing authorizing program for regular cleanups , not intended solely for mtbe cleanups , is severely underfunded and state programs are broke . 
approximately 136 , 000 leaks are not being addressed yet , and epa anticipates that over the next decade there will be between 6 , 000 and 12 , 000 new leaks each year . 
epa currently fails to meet its program goal of cleaning up 21 , 000 sites per year . 
in 2003 , the epa only cleaned up 18 , 000 sites -- 3 , 000 sites short of its goal . 
in 2004 , only 14 , 235 sites were cleaned up -- 7 , 000 sites short of epa 's goal . 
despite the need for cleanup funds and epa 's inability to meets its cleanup goal , this administration has cut funding for cleanups by 8 percent , from $ 72 million in fiscal year 2001 to $ 69.4 million in the fiscal year 2005 omnibus . 
cleanups are not an administration priority . 
cleanups are not the appropriators ' priority . 
supporters can talk all day long about authorizing `` sufficient '' funds but it means nothing . 
the reality is that this is an unfunded mandate and our cities , communities and water providers will be left holding the bag . 
an unfunded mandate on states which are paid for by taxpayers and largely broke . 
in arizona , california , georgia , illinois , kentucky , maryland , minnesota , montana , new hampshire , oklahoma , rhode island , south dakota , texas , virginia and wisconsin the funds are serviced exclusively with fuel taxes . 
programs in alabama , arkansas , colorado , florida , iowa , indiana , louisiana , massachusetts , maine , mississippi , north carolina , north dakota , nebraska , new mexico , nevada , new york , pennsylvania , south carolina , tennessee and vermont are funded predominantly by fuel taxes . 
in fact , alaska , delaware , hawaii , maryland , oregon , washington and west virginia do n't have cleanup funds . 
more than 12 states have funds with more claims than money . 
the entire texas financial assurance fund will sunset on september 1 , 2006 . 
tennessee 's fund is in the process of going broke ; michigan needs an estimated $ 1.7 billion to cleanup orphan sites . 
if you are from florida , your state stopped accepting claims years ago . 
arizona , minnesota , missouri , nebraska and vermont will all have stopped accepting claims by 2010 , and kansas and north dakota , will not accept claims after 2014 . 
the bottom line is that , unlike supporters of the safe harbor provision would like to believe , the federal government is not funding the cleanups and the state programs can not afford to fund the cleanups . 
authorizing money in this bill will not solve that problem . 
colleagues , the federal government is not paying for cleanups and language amending the lust program -- supported by republicans -- will do nothing to help , in fact , it will further hinder the epa 's ability to clean up these sites and states ' ability to prevent contamination . 
this leaves taxpayers footing the bill instead of manufacturers . 
when taxpayers realize their money is being spent cleaning up the mess of corporate polluters who got rich off voluntarily using mtbe , when they realize that the federal government transferred a huge unfunded mandate onto them , those doing the dirty work , those supporting this provision , will be responsible . 
the san gabriel valley tribune said it best when they said `` polluters should foot the bill. '' i urge my colleagues to support efforts to strip this unfunded mandate from the energy bill . 
mtbe contamination is soaring although the use of mtbe in gasoline is rapidly declining , detections of mtbe in water supplies are soaring . 
the number of water systems reporting mtbe contamination in tap water supplies increased more than 15-fold between 1996 and 2004 , from 137 to 1 , 861 , and the number of states reporting problems more than doubled , from 11 to 29 , according to ewg action fund 's analysis of state water testing data . 
these figures are not necessarily systems whose customers are currently drinking mtbe in their tap water , but those where it has been detected somewhere in the system . 
the total number of contaminated systems includes private water supplies that may serve only a single customer , but more than 60 percent ( about 1 , 100 systems ) supply drinking water to cities , counties , rural communities and schools . 
in the majority of the affected communities , consumers are unaware of the contamination because water utilities take steps to protect them as soon as mtbe is detected . 
mtbe contamination as low as two parts per billion -- two drops in an olympic-sized swimming pool -- can produce a harsh chemical odor and taste that can cause tap water to be undrinkable . 
to cope with the problem , water utilities must either blend mtbe-contaminated water with clean sources to dilute the chemical , install costly systems to remove it , or abandon affected wells and find new water sources . 
the american water works association , representing 4 , 700 u.s. water systems , estimates nationwide mtbe cleanup and water replacement costs at $ 29 billion -- and rising with each new detection . 
mtbe contamination affects communities of all sizes , with contamination reported from large systems like san diego , where the water utility serves 1.2 million people , to the millbrook country day school in massachusetts , serving 25 students and teachers . 
mtbe has been detected in water supplies serving 32 million people in california , about 4.7 million in new jersey , about 2.2 million in massachusetts and 1 million in texas . 
in some communities , a substantial portion of the local water supply has been contaminated , while in many others only one or two detections of mtbe have been made . 
but this last fact is less reassuring than it is worrisome . 
state water testing records obtained by ewg indicate that in almost all systems with just one positive detection of mtbe , tests for the compound were conducted in the last four years . 
water systems nationwide are wrapping up a years-long process of meeting federal requirements mandating testing for `` unregulated contaminants '' like mtbe . 
this suggests that mtbe is only now showing up in many drinking water systems . 
the prospect that the mtbe contamination crisis has yet to peak makes the scheme to shield polluters from liability all the more troubling . 
also rising rapidly are lawsuits against the oil companies by communities whose water is contaminated with mtbe . 
since 2003 , 155 water systems in 17 states have filed suits arguing that mtbe is a defective product , and that refiners knew that it would contaminate groundwater before they began adding it to gasoline but failed to warn consumers . 
in 2002 that argument , outlined in devastating detail in industry documents , convinced a jury to find shell , texaco and four other companies liable for contaminating drinking water supplies in south lake tahoe , calif. , forcing a $ 60 million settlement for cleanup . 
in 2003 , shell , exxon , chevrontexaco and 15 other companies settled a contamination lawsuit brought by santa monica , calif. , by agreeing to spend an estimated $ 200 million on a filtration system to remove mtbe from the city 's water supplies . 
the success of those lawsuits in holding the oil companies responsible for mtbe contamination sparked the first attempt in 2003 by the industry and its political allies to make it impossible for communities to sue on defective product grounds . 
in turn , the push for the waiver set off a rush to file lawsuits by communities with contamination . 
of the 150-plus cases now in court , all but three were filed after september 2003 and would be thrown out by the retroactive provision of the delay-barton bill . 
if mtbe makers are given immunity from defective product lawsuits , the burden of cleanup will fall to individual gas station owners , most of whom lack the kind of money it would take , and ultimately to the taxpayers . 
in the house , 21 republicans and five democrats who voted for the energy bill and mtbe liability waiver now are faced with the prospect , if they again support it , of throwing out a total of 38 lawsuits filed by community water systems in the districts they represent . 
three members are from new jersey , which has a total of 430 water systems where mtbe has been detected -- far more systems than in any other state , supplying drinking water to 4.7 million garden state residents . 
eleven are from california , where mtbe has been found in 144 water systems serving more than 32 million people -- almost 90 percent of the state 's population . 
an additional 81 house members -- 74 republicans and 9 democrats -- who supported the energy bill and liability waiver represent districts where mtbe has been detected in the water supply , but lawsuits have not been filed . 
seven are from california , representing districts where 22 water systems have detected mtbe . 
thirteen , including delay and barton , are from texas ; in their districts are 29 water systems with mtbe contamination . 
one house member who voted yes in 2003 ( arkansas democrat mike ross ) has 50 water systems in his district with contamination . 
another ( maryland republican roscoe g. bartlett ) has 50 . 
april 5 , 2005 . 
oppose the mtbe liability waiver ! 
dear members of the house energy and commerce committee : the undersigned organizations -- representing thousands of mayors , city council members , county officials , towns and townships , drinking water systems and public works departments -- reiterate our strong opposition to providing product liability immunity to the producers of mtbe . 
the liability waiver amounts to a massive unfunded mandate on local governments and citizens . 
mtbe producers , according to documents in recent litigation , put this contaminant into commerce knowing it could contaminate drinking water supplies . 
under the mtbe product liability waiver , these producers would be rendered unaccountable . 
thousands of water sources have been contaminated , and as mtbe spreads , more and more communities will be forced to shut down wells or undertake a costly cleanup program . 
here are some important facts to remember : 1 . 
mtbe was never mandated , and congress is not obligated to provide the producers `` safe harbor. '' and , regardless , the producers put mtbe into gasoline well before the clean air act amendments of 1990 and with knowledge of its environmental dangers . 
2 . 
one estimate by experts puts the cleanup cost in excess of $ 29 billion . 
3 . 
the liability waiver would retroactively block hundreds of communities ' legitimate suits that have been filed already and could preempt hundreds more , leaving communities with a multi-billion dollar unfunded mandate from congress . 
4 . 
the leaking underground storage tank fund was not intended to address the overwhelming amount of contamination communities are experiencing . 
moreover , taxpayers should not pay for mtbe cleanup . 
please oppose the mtbe liability waiver . 
sincerely , mr. chairman , i rise to support the hastings amendment . 
california law , back in 1996 , we passed this particular amendment , and i carried that bill . 
it was one of the first in this country . 
now there are 29 states that are enforcing this . 
under the energy bill , this provision is necessary because they will be able to put refineries , be able to go onto native americans lands , they will be able to go into communities of color , in low-income communities like mine that are underserved right now , that have many , many egregious projects that are there that are polluting our waters , and making our life , i think , a health hazard . 
this is the wrong direction to go in with the energy bill . 
we need to support this amendment for environmental justice when right now , under the bush administration , 33 percent of ej moneys have been cut . 
madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
madam chairman , i rise in opposition to this bill . 
first of all , it is improperly titled . 
it is not an energy policy act at all ; it is the delay bill . 
now , why is it the delay bill ? 
well , it is a bill that delays energy self-sufficiency by enacting tax breaks and policies that benefit the oil and gas industry and ignores renewable alternatives . 
it delays protecting the arctic national wildlife refuge . 
it delays holding the makers of mtbe accountable for destroying drinking water . 
it delays the end of $ 8 billion in special interest tax breaks . 
it delays fishery restoration by giving dam owners free rein . 
it delays protecting our children who suffer more and more from asthma as this bill delays enactment of stricter smog regulations . 
it delays protecting our shorelines from oil and gas development . 
it delays cleaner air and lower gas prices by mandating an agricultural welfare program called ethanol . 
it delays the end of corporate welfare for the likes of enron and home depot . 
it delays the ability of states to enact tougher energy efficiency laws . 
i could keep going , madam chairman , but i do not want to delay the proceedings any further . 
the bill was written by and for the oil and gas industry with the involvement of a small band of powerful members of congress . 
its very existence raises questions of ethical behavior . 
but as we know , our committee on standards of official conduct is unable to meet to consider such transgressions because of delay by my colleagues on the republican side of the aisle which delay committee on standards of official conduct action against one of their own . 
the purpose is not to enact a sane energy policy for our country at all . 
in fact , as i have outlined above , it delays that very possibility . 
it is an antienvironment , anticonsumer , antienergy self-sufficiency and irresponsible corporate welfare bill . 
rather than considering this legislation , we should be considering why `` delay '' continues to rule the house of representatives . 
madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
madam chairman , i yield 3 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from washington ( mr. mcdermott ) xz4002620 without further delay . 
madam chairman , i yield 2 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from texas ( mr. doggett ) xz4001110 . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from georgia ( mr. lewis ) xz4002401 . 
madam chairman , i am happy to yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi ) xz4003140 , the distinguished minority leader . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the amendment . 
encouraging and supporting the development of innovative new technology is preferable to arbitrary increases in cafe standards that will truly hurt thousands of american workers . 
moreover , the national academy of sciences report of 2001 indicated that only the subcompact car segment of our fleet could be expected to achieve this fuel economy level . 
this suggests that a substantial portion of the vehicles on the road would have to be very small to reach this objective . 
reducing our consumption of oil should come from new technology , not by mandating a standard that requires most vehicles to be a subcompact . 
the national academy of sciences also raises concerns about potential increases in highway fatalities if the auto industry is forced into selling a greater share of small vehicles . 
according to the analysis of the insurance institute of highway safety data in 1999 , since cafe standards were first announced in 1975 , approximately 46 , 000 people died in crashes who would have survived if cafe had not encouraged smaller , lighter cars . 
i am concerned that this amendment would lead to more unnecessary fatalities . 
for these reasons , i urge a `` no '' vote on this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the markey-bishop amendment . 
this amendment includes a provision that permanently bans oil and gas drilling in and under our great lakes . 
i offered this language as an amendment before the committee on rules last night . 
however , the committee on rules republican majority refused to allow my bipartisan amendment to be considered on the floor despite strong bipartisan support for it in the house and by the american people . 
the great lakes are one of our nation 's greatest natural resources and are vital to more than 30 million americans who rely upon them for their drinking water . 
understanding this , congress has repeatedly banned oil and gas drilling in and under the great lakes to protect this vital resource . 
in 2001 , the house voted overwhelmingly , 265-157 , in favor of instituting a ban . 
last week when the committee on energy and commerce marked up this legislation , i offered my amendment . 
unfortunately , the gentleman from michigan ( mr. rogers ) xz4003421 undermined my amendment in favor of a watered-down version . 
that amendment is included in the bill we find before us today . 
the rogers amendment does nothing to stop drilling in the great lakes . 
what the rogers amendment does is leave drilling practices up to the eight great lakes states and their legislatures . 
we could have eight different policies on drilling in our lakes . 
plus it is congress that regulates commerce amongst the several states , as is found in the constitution in the interstate commerce clause . 
the great lakes already face a number of threats , invasive species and contamination that leads to beach closures . 
given these threats , it makes no sense to further endanger the great lakes by opening them up to oil and gas drilling . 
the bottomlands of the great lakes will not provide enough oil or natural gas to make even a small dent in the amount of america 's energy needs that are supplied by imported oil and natural gas . 
and an oil spill on the shoreline can contaminate our groundwater . 
unfortunately , pollution knows no boundaries . 
when one or more of the great lakes states does not have a ban and a blowout or a spill occurs , those states , all of the states , may be forced to pay the public health and environmental price . 
the message is clear . 
even an energy crisis is not enough to justify threatening our great lakes , the world 's largest body of fresh water , to extract what industry experts agree will be a small amount of oil and gas . 
i ask that my colleagues approve this amendment to enact a permanent ban on oil and gas drilling in and on the great lakes . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. chairman , if the chairman would remember , he did allow me to offer my amendment in committee , but before we had voted to do a permanent ban , it was undermined by the rogers amendment , which basically says the same thing that it says in the body of the underlying bill , which encourages states to enact a ban . 
as the gentleman from texas knows well , because we have several states who deal with lake michigan and four of the five great lakes are international borders , a ban , if it is going to come , a permanent ban , which we seek , would have to be federal legislation because of the interstate commerce clause from which our committee gets its jurisdiction . 
that is why we were very disappointed in that , especially . 
in fact , in 2001 , we did have a moratorium on oil and gas drilling in the great lakes , and it passed 265-157 with strong bipartisan support . 
that is why we are disappointed that the committee on rules did not make our amendment in order . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from oklahoma ( mr. boren ) xz4006450 . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i support this amendment . 
i think our colleagues from connecticut and massachusetts have very well explained why the amendment should be adopted . 
on that , i do n't think there is a need to try to add to what they said except to say that the amendment will protect one of the most special places in our country without much real cost in terms of our ability to maintain needed energy supplies . 
but i do want to take just a moment to add a personal note . 
as congress has debated this and similar energy bills , there has been some discussion of the history of the alaska lands act and how its authors might vote if they were still members of congress . 
some have even suggested that my father , mo udall , would oppose this amendment and support opening the coastal plain to drilling . 
that 's an interesting thought . 
of course , all we really know is that if things were different , they would be different . 
but i have my own opinion on the subject -- and i think speculation along those lines is not based on history . 
i think that the prime sponsors of the alaska lands act , including my father , would support the markey-johnson amendment . 
of course , that is n't really the point , anyway -- the real issue before us is n't about the past , but about the future . 
and it is up to us -- not our predecessors -- to decide , not just for ourselves but for our children and their children . 
but if people want to consider some words from the past , i would direct their attention to the original committee report on the alaska lands act , dated april 7 , 1978 . 
on page 149 , the report points out that `` the committee has noted the eloquent statements of a number of prominent alaskans '' about the idea of building a pipeline across the coastal plain . 
`` for example , '' the report continues , `` senator ted stevens ... .. 
told the council on environmental quality that `some have appropriately compared [ that idea ] with slicing a razor lade across the face of the mona lisa. '' i think that is a good summary of what could happen if we do not adopt this amendment . 
i am not saying that senator stevens would support the amendment -- i am sure he would n't . 
i am saying that i think he aptly described what will happen if the coastal plain is opened to drilling . 
and that is why i will vote for this amendment , and why i urge its adoption by the house . 
mr. chairman , i regret that i can not support this legislation . 
there is nothing i 'd rather vote for than a balanced energy bill that sets us on a forward-looking course -- one that acknowledges that this country is overly dependent on a single energy source -- fossil fuels -- to the detriment of our environment , our national security , and our economy . 
but at a time of sky-rocketing oil prices , this bill does n't do what it needs to do -- help us balance our energy portfolio and increase the contributions of alternative energy sources to our energy mix . 
the bill is not all bad , of course . 
i support most of the provisions developed by the science committee , and i commend chairman boehlert and ranking member gordon for their bipartisan approach . 
in particular , i 'm pleased that the science committee bill included generous authorization levels for renewable energy and energy efficiency r & amp ; d . 
as co-chair of the renewable energy and energy efficiency caucus , this funding is very important to me . 
i am also pleased that this bill includes the clean green school bus act , a bill that chairman boehlert and i drafted that authorizes grants to help school districts replace aging diesel vehicles with clean , alternative fuel buses . 
h.r. 6 also includes provisions from my bill , the distributed power hybrid energy act , which would direct the secretary of energy to develop and implement a strategy for research , development , and demonstration of distributed power hybrid energy systems . 
it makes sense to focus our r & amp ; d priorities on distributed power hybrid systems that can both help improve power reliability and affordability and bring more efficiency and cleaner energy resources into the mix . 
unfortunately , though , this bill -- like the ones we 've debated twice before -- remains all too reminiscent of that old western movie -- '' the good , the bad , and the ugly. '' in fact , over the years it has only gotten worse and uglier . 
one of the ugliest parts is the provision that would open to drilling the coastal plain of the arctic national wildlife refuge . 
on that question , congress is being asked to gamble on finding oil there . 
so , we first must decide what stakes we are willing to risk , and then weigh the odds . 
the stakes are the coastal plain . 
the u.s. fish and wildlife service says it `` is critically important to the ecological integrity of the whole arctic refuge '' which is `` america 's finest example of an intact , naturally functioning community of arctic/subarctic ecosystems. '' estimates are that there is six months ' supply of economically recoverable oil in the refuge 's coastal plain . 
while the economically recoverable amount could increase along with higher oil prices , we know for certain that drilling will change everything on the coastal plain forever . 
it will never be wilderness again . 
we do not need to take that bet . 
there are less-sensitive places to drill -- and even better alternatives , including conserving energy and more use of renewable resources . 
but the idea of opening the refuge is only one example of misplaced priorities or flawed policies concerning this legislation . 
this bill would provide oil and gas companies massive forgiveness of royalty payments . 
it would shift the cost of mtbe cleanup from mtbe manufacturers to taxpayers -- an unfunded mandate on our communities . 
that should not have been included in the bill . 
further , the bill significantly weakens the clean air act by exempting states from having to clean up their dirty air if some of their pollution comes from `` upwind '' states . 
it would exempt industry from requirements of the safe drinking water act when they inject diesel fuel and other harmful chemicals into the ground during drilling . 
it would repeal the heart of the national environmental policy act for energy projects by eliminating the requirement that agencies examine alternatives that could lead to lesser harm or greater benefits . 
it would repeal the public utility holding company act , a law that protects consumers and investors from corporate abuses . 
and then there are all the things the bill would not do . 
it would not increase vehicle fuel economy standards , which have been frozen since 1996 . 
raising cafe standards is the single biggest step we can take to reduce oil consumption , since about half of the oil used in the u.s. goes into the gas tanks of our passenger vehicles . 
the bill does not give federal regulators the tools they need to prevent and punish the enrons of the world who manipulate power markets . 
the bill does not suspend deliveries to the strategic petroleum reserve and instead put the oil on the marketplace , which could bring gasoline prices down . 
most importantly , according to analyses conducted by the department of energy 's energy information administration , our need for imported oil will increase by 75 percent in twenty years under provisions in this bill . 
coloradans on average are already paying $ 2.25 for a gallon of regular gas . 
this bill will do nothing to bring those prices down . 
of the bill 's total $ 8.1 billion in tax incentives , $ 7.5 billion ( or 93 percent ) is for traditional energy sources such as oil , natural gas , and nuclear power . 
the oil and gas industries are getting these massive subsidies from the taxpayer at the same time that their profits have never been higher . 
i do n't always agree with president bush . 
but i think he is absolutely right about one thing -- at $ 55 a barrel , we do n't need incentives to oil and gas companies to explore . 
instead , we need a strategy to wean our nation from its dependence on foreign oil . 
colorado is uniquely positioned to take advantage of alternative energy opportunities , such as wind and sun . 
voters approved amendment 37 last year , which is making a difference in our energy supply . 
colorado is leading the nation in this area . 
not only are we producing cleaner , cheaper energy , we are also providing economic development in rural colorado in places like sterling and holyoke . 
in fact , i am going to be doing a harvesting energy tour in northeastern colorado this weekend with former colorado house speaker lola spradley , representatives from the colorado farm bureau and the rocky mountain farmers union and renewable energy companies to talk about how renewable energy can be an economic development boon for rural colorado . 
but we need federal incentives to help move renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies to the mainstream , and yet only 7 percent of the incentives in this bill would promote their development . 
that 's why -- along with my colleague representative zach wamp , who co-chairs the renewable energy and energy efficiency caucus with me -- i offered amendments to the bill to make it more balanced . 
our amendments would have extended the renewable energy production tax credit until 2008 , would have extended the tax credit that individuals receive for purchasing hybrid vehicles , and would have increased and extended the business and residential solar tax credits . 
unfortunately , the republican leadership did n't allow them to be debated and voted on . 
i also tried to improve the resources committee 's energy bill provisions with an amendment dealing with oil shale language in the bill . 
the bill requires the interior department to set up a new leasing program for commercial development of oil shale , with final regulations to be in place by the end of next year . 
in other words , it calls for a crash program to meet a short , arbitrary deadline . 
my amendment would not have barred oil shale development . 
instead , it would have said that before we leap again , we should take a look and have a clear idea of where we are apt to land . 
colorado has the most significant amounts of oil shale -- and also the most experience with oil shale fever . 
in colorado , we have had several bouts of oil shale fever . 
the last one started during the 1970s energy crisis and ended abruptly on `` black sunday '' in 1982 . 
that was when exxon announced it was pulling out of the colony shale project , an event that left an impact crater from the western slope to downtown denver . 
that was followed by an exodus of other companies that had been working on oil shale -- which led to an exodus of jobs and of coloradans who had nowhere else to turn . 
under my amendment , interior would be told to prepare regulations for a new oil shale leasing program -- and to get them finished `` promptly '' after finishing the analysis required by nepa and the regular process for developing new federal regulations . 
unfortunately , the republican leadership of the resources committee opposed my amendment , and so it was not adopted . 
the result is that this part of the bill is much uglier than it should be . 
in conclusion , mr. chairman , we need a plan in place to increase our energy security . 
thirteen percent of the twenty million barrels of oil we consume each day comes from the persian gulf . 
in fact , fully 30 percent of the world 's oil supply comes from this same volatile and politically unstable region of the world . 
yet with only 3 percent of the world 's known oil reserves , we are not in a position to solve our energy vulnerability by drilling at home . 
this bill does nothing to tackle this fundamental problem . 
for every step it takes to move us away from our oil/carbon-based economy , it takes two in the opposite direction . 
i only wish my colleagues in the house could understand that a vision of a clean energy future is not radical science fiction but is instead based on science and technology that exists today . 
given the magnitude of the crisis ahead , we can surely put more public investment behind new energy sources that will free us from our dependence on oil . 
two days ago , at the opening of the abraham lincoln museum in springfield , president bush attempted to draw parallels between his goal of expanding freedom in the world and lincoln 's effort to expand freedom in the u.s. i have some questions about that comparison , but i do think it is good to consider lincoln 's example when we debate public policy . 
in fact , i wish president bush and the republicans would draw a few more parallels to lincoln in their approach to energy policy -- because , as that greatest of republican presidents said , `` the dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate for the stormy present . 
our present is piled high with difficulties . 
we must think anew and act anew -- then we will save our country. '' and while we are not engaged in a civil war , our excessive dependence on fossil energy is a pressing matter of national security . 
we have an energy crisis . 
we need to think anew to devise a better energy policy in order to save our country from this energy crisis . 
unfortunately , too much of this bill reflects not just a failure but an absolute refusal to think anew . 
provision after provision reflects a stubborn insistence on old ideas -- more tax subsidies , more royalty giveaways , more restrictions on public participation , more limits on environmental reviews -- and a hostility to the search for new approaches . 
maybe we could have afforded such a mistake in the past . 
but now the stakes are too high -- because , as i said , energy policy is n't just an economic issue , it 's a national security issue . 
america 's dependence on imported oil poses a risk to our homeland security and economic wellbeing . 
and so , mr. chairman , i must vote against it . 
mr. chairman , this bill is not perfect . 
but it provides appropriate funding for many important purposes , and i will vote for it . 
subcommittee chairman hobson , ranking member visclosky , and their colleagues on the appropriations committee deserve our thanks for their work on this legislation . 
their task was made harder by the restrictions imposed by the budget resolution championed by the republican leadership , and the bill does not include some things that i think should have been funded . 
but i think they have done a good job with the allocation of funds available to them , and the bill does include some items of particular importance to coloradans . 
in particular , i am very pleased that it will provide nearly $ 580 million to continue -- and , i hope , complete -- the cleanup of rocky flats . 
formed by the location of a facility for making key parts of nuclear weapons , the rocky flats site is located just 15 miles from downtown denver and at one time was the location of large quantities of nuclear materials and other hazardous substances . 
because of its proximity to our state 's major metropolitan area , timely and effective cleanup and closure of the site has been a matter of top priority for all coloradans . 
with the funding provided by this bill and barring unforeseen developments , the department of energy and its contractor , kaiser-hill , should be able to complete the cleanup in the coming months -- and while the department will have ongoing responsibilities at rocky flats , completing the cleanup will enable it to focus even more intently on the cleanup work to be done at other sites . 
so , i strongly support this part of the bill . 
however , while we are taking care of the site , it is essential that we also take care of those who worked there . 
some of them were made sick because of exposure to beryllium , radiation , or other hazards . 
it was because of them , and those like them who worked at other sites , that i worked with our colleagues from kentucky and ohio , mr. whitfield and mr. strickland , as well as others in both the house and senate , and with secretary of energy bill richardson and his colleagues in the clinton administration , to pass the energy employees occupational illness compensation program act ( eeoicpa ) . 
i am proud to have been able to help get this program enacted and i will continue working to improve it for those who have worked at rocky flats and other sites . 
and , we need to also remember the other workers at rocky flats as well . 
as they near the completion of their jobs at the site , they are understandably concerned about what will come next . 
many have moved on to other jobs , and others will do so . 
but many are facing uncertainties about their futures . 
for all of them , it is essential that doe acts promptly to resolve remaining questions about the futures they can expect when their work at rocky flats is finished . 
for that reason , i recently wrote to ask secretary bodman to give immediate attention to two important matters -- ( 1 ) determining the future administration of pension and health insurance plans for rocky flats workers ( and for those at other closure sites as well ) ; and ( 2 ) assuring the continued availability of medical benefits for rocky flats workers who will not be eligible for full retirement at the time of the site 's closure . 
i pointed out that doe 's office of legacy management ( lm ) has stated that it is developing a plan for the transition of pension and insurance plans , as well as for record keeping and other matters for which lm is responsible . 
however , i also noted that no such plan yet exists , which means there is increasing concern among the rocky flats workers about their future . 
there now remain only a few months for these matters to be resolved prior to closure . 
time is of the essence . 
so , i was very glad to note that the committee report accompanying this bill directs doe to report by september 30 , 2005 , on the department 's plan for a national stewardship contract for administration of the pension and benefit payments to former environmental management closure site contractor employees . 
i applaud the committee for including this directive , and urge the administration to complete and submit this report as soon as possible . 
the bill also includes other matters of particular importance for colorado . 
it provides funding for several bureau of reclamation projects in our state , including the colorado-big thompson project and the fryingpan-arkansas project as well as the ongoing construction of the animas-la plata project . 
it also includes needed funds for operation and maintenance of a number of reservoirs operated by the army 's corps of engineers as well as for other corps activities in colorado . 
and i am very glad to note that the bill will provide funds for completing construction of the new science and technology facility at the national renewable energy laboratory . 
i am disappointed , however , that the bill shortchanges some of the important clean energy programs at nrel . 
as co-chair of the renewable energy and energy efficiency caucus in the house , i have worked for years to increase -- or at a minimum , hold steady -- funding for doe 's renewable energy and energy efficiency research and development programs . 
given the finite supply and high prices of fossil fuels and increasing global demand , investing in clean energy is more important than ever . 
doe 's renewable energy programs are vital to our nation 's interests , helping provide strategies and tools to address the environmental challenges we will face in the coming decades . 
these programs are also helping to reduce our reliance on oil imports , thereby strengthening our national security , and also creating hundreds of new domestic businesses , supporting thousands of american jobs , and opening new international markets for american goods and services . 
for our investment in these technologies to payoff , our efforts must be sustained over the long term . 
this bill does not do that . 
this bill is $ 23 million less than last year 's bill in the area of renewable energy research . 
this includes cuts in biomass , geothermal , and solar energy programs . 
i believe that the reductions in funding levels for the core renewable energy programs are ill-advised at a time when the need for a secure , domestic energy supply is so crucial . 
i am also concerned about the bill 's deep cuts to energy efficiency programs such as industrial technologies ( $ 16 million ) and state energy program grants ( nearly $ 4 million ) and a cut of nearly $ 5 million in the distributed energy and electricity reliability program . 
nonetheless , mr. chairman , my regrets about this bill are outweighed by my appreciation for the good things that it includes , and so i urge the house to pass this important appropriations bill . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts for his leadership on this issue . 
i see a far different place than the two gentlemen that have spoken before us from the opposition . 
when i went up to the arctic national wildlife refuge , i saw a tremendously diverse area in terms of wildlife . 
i saw musk oxen , grizzly bears , arctic char , and this marvelous caribou herd , which is the largest in north america , migrate to cross the area that we are talking about drilling in . 
so there is a far different area than is being described . 
one of the things that has not been mentioned here is , two native tribes depend on the migration of these caribou , and they have asked the congress and they have asked the state of alaska to stand up for them and to say , we do not want to have the destruction of this migration , because their livelihood depends on having caribou , and their entire existence rotates around that . 
so i would urge my colleagues to support the markey amendment and vote down this dangerous energy bill . 
mr. chairman , i offer an amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
with all due respect to the chairman , he claims that this section excludes new mexico . 
i have a memo here from the congressional research service that reads as follows : `` the proposed statutory language , section 631 , does not appear to prohibit precisely the same sorts of projects envisioned by section 631 from occurring within new mexico . 
this statute , section 631 , even appears to permit the department of energy to fund these types of programs in new mexico so long as there are alternative available sources of federal funding that can be utilized. '' also , i would point out funds are fungible . 
this $ 30 million could end up and free up funds committed elsewhere . 
a company can use the now freed-up money to mine in new mexico . 
thus , this subsidy would indirectly facilitate uranium mining in navajo communities . 
this has broader communications than just for my state . 
we should not be experimenting in communities ' water supply anywhere . 
my amendment protects all communities near uranium mines from potentially having their water supplies polluted . 
section 631 also has very serious fiscal concerns . 
this proposed subsidy would lead to even further unsound policy . 
at a time of skyrocketing federal deficits and in an uncertain economic future , we should not be giving away $ 30 million to the uranium industry . 
we have too many priorities that are not being met because of policies like this subsidy . 
taxpayers for common sense views this as an unfair corporate giveaway . 
we do not need more of this type of uranium development . 
promoting this type of development does not safely provide new energy sources ; instead , it increases the potential for drastically harming the environment and causing potential harm to thousands . 
the case , mr. chairman , for this amendment is strong . 
this is corporate welfare , pure and simple . 
it is unwise use of taxpayer dollars and dangerous to my constituents . 
my amendment can prevent the potential damage this provision can inflict on the health of thousands of native americans . 
but as i stated earlier , this provision has implications to far more communities than in my district . 
the potential long-term damage this section could inflict on the environment is also immeasurable . 
i ask my colleagues to take a close look at this and consider whether or not they would want this type of dangerous mining occurring in the neighborhoods of their constituents . 
i urge my colleagues to support my amendment , stop corporate welfare , help protect the health of native americans and help protect the environment . 
in closing , i ask to include for the record this list of organizations that are supporting my amendment to demonstrate the broad support we received from both new mexico and nationally . 
supporters of the udall amendment the navajo nation , washington , dc , april 20 , 2005 . 
dear congressman udall : as the executive director of the navajo nation washington office , representing the navajo nation in washington , dc , i wish to express strong opposition to any attempt to reopen the navajo nation to uranium mining . 
section 631 of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 , would create a $ 30 million subsidy for the domestic uranium mining industry over three years to `` identify , test , and develop improved in situ leaching mining technologies. '' while proponents of in situ leach mining contend that this type of mining poses a low risk to groundwater contamination , the fact remains that the technology is unproven and the possibility of environmental restoration is inconclusive . 
the history of uranium mining on the navajo nation is painful . 
many navajo people have died or suffered the painful effects from uranium exposure through contaminated air , water , and livestock . 
to this day , the navajo nation continues to work with the united states government to address the harmful physical , emotional , and financial hardships navajo families continue to endure because of past uranium activity . 
the dine ' will not tolerate the risk of being exposed to uranium again . 
it is important to note that the proposed legislation would not only threaten the health of the navajo people , but also threatens the navajo aquifer , which provides the entire region with uncontaminated drinking water . 
the proposed sites for the uranium leaching would be church rock and crownpoint , new mexico , located 90 miles from albuquerque . 
this area is also home to approximately 15 , 000 people , and thousands more non-navajos who could soon be effected by possible uranium exposure . 
for the sake of the health and safety of the navajo people , and the non-navajo communities surrounding the navajo nation , i support your proposed amendment to remove section 631 from h.r. 6 . 
thank you for your attention to this urgent matter . 
sincerely , executive director , navajo nation against uranium mining , crownpoint , nm , april 20 , 2005 . 
dear representative : eastern navajo din against uranium mining ( endaum ) -- a navajo citizens group that has been trying to stop a uranium solution mining project in two din communities in new mexico for more than 10 years -- urges you to support the udall amendment to the energy policy act of 2005 ( h.r. 6 ) . 
the udall amendment strikes section 631 , which authorizes a $ 30 million dollar subsidy to companies using the in situ leach ( isl ) , or solution mining , method to extract uranium . 
this unnecessary act of corporate welfare could indirectly facilitate uranium mining in navajo communities that do n't want it and on a sovereign american indian nation that just this week enacted a statutory ban on uranium mining and processing . 
since 1995 , endaum and other groups have mounted a legal challenge to the nuclear regulatory commission 's licensing of hydro resources inc. 's crownpoint uranium project . 
endaum believes that solution mining at four sites in church rock and crownpoint , new mexico , will contaminate the regional aquifer that provides the only source of drinking water for an estimated 15 , 000 people . 
even though section 631 contains a limitation that bars the department of energy ( doe ) from awarding any of the $ 30 million in grants for `` restoration demonstration projects '' located in new mexico , endaum fears that the provision , if enacted , could fund hri 's parent company , uranium resources , inc . 
( uri ) . 
uri , which is based in texas and operates three isl mines there , qualifies for the doe grants under language in section 631 . 
endaum fears that should uri receive a doe grant to be used at its texas mines , it would free up cash to fund hri 's defense of its nrc license and eventually to construct the proposed isl mines in church rock and crownpoint . 
since the early 1950s , many navajo communities including church rock have dealt with the devastating impacts of uranium mining on the health of workers and community members and the environment . 
this 50-year legacy was one of the principal reasons cited by the navajo nation council when it voted 63-19 on april 19 to adopt the din natural resources protection act of 2005 , which created navajo nation law banning uranium mining and processing , including isl mining . 
congress has a responsibility to pass energy policy that promotes development of sustainable and renewable energy sources while protecting the environment and public health and respecting the sovereignty of native american tribes . 
isl mining in a currently used drinking water aquifer in navajo communities is inimical to these objectives and is opposed not only be the overwhelming majority of people in the area , but also by the navajo nation government . 
again , endaum urges you to support the udall amendment to strike from the energy policy act of 2005 the $ 30 million subsidy to the uranium mining industry . 
sincerely , lynnea smith , taxpayers for common sense action , stop uranium subsidies from fouling up the energy bill dear representative : we urge you to support representative tom udall 's amendment to strike section 631 from h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
we are deeply concerned with this provision , which gives a $ 30 million handout to the uranium industry , and we will consider including your vote on the udall amendment on our annual scorecards . 
section 631 authorizes $ 30 million in federal spending to aid the uranium industry 's efforts to develop in situ leaching mining technology . 
this unnecessary act of corporate welfare subsidizes a mature industry that has existed in the united states for more than half a century , and does not need the government to hold its hand any longer . 
the u.s. already has an ample supply of uranium , and does not need to spend hard-earned taxpayer dollars to scour for new sources . 
the 50-year-old nuclear industry has benefited from cradle-to-grave subsidization for too long . 
these subsidies distort price signals and undermine the natural market forces of the energy industry . 
section 631 is yet another example of the government 's wasteful support of nuclear power , an industry that can not survive on its own . 
this $ 89 billion energy bill is ballooning in cost , and at a time of unprecedented deficits it is the taxpayers of the next generation that will foot the bill . 
we urge you to oppose the energy bill , and to demonstrate your commitment to fiscal responsibility by supporting the udall amendment . 
if you would like any more information , please contact evan berger at ( 202 ) 546-8500x111 . 
sincerely , jill lancelot , mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. chairman , the congressional research service was specifically asked the question , and there is absolutely no doubt . 
i read it into the record . 
it is there . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of this amendment and i congratulate the gentleman from florida , mr. hastings , for bringing it to the floor of the house . 
the amendment would expand the federal definition of environmental justice , directs each federal agency to establish an office of environmental justice , reestablishes the interagency federal working group on environmental justice , and requires that executive order 12898 remain in force until changed by law . 
by adopting the amendment we can take a significant step to ensuring that current and future federal policies will be informed by the need to protect minority and low-income communities from poor environmental and energy decisions and policies . 
the amendment is similar to a bill i introduced earlier this year with our colleague from california , representative hilda solis . 
it is also cosponsored by the gentleman from new jersey , mr. andrews as well as by mr. hastings of florida , the author of this amendment . 
like this amendment , that legislation was prompted by our continued concern about the way federal actions have had disproportionately adverse effects on the health , environment and quality of life of americans in minority and lower-income communities . 
too often these communities -- because of their low income or lack of political visibility -- are exposed to greater risks from toxins and dangerous substances because it has been possible to locate waste dumps , industrial facilities , and chemical storage warehouses in these communities with less care than would be taken in other locations . 
the sad fact is that in some eyes these communities have appeared as expendable -- without full appreciation that human beings , who deserve to be treated with respect and dignity , are living , working , and raising families there . 
this needs to give way to policies focused on providing clean , healthy and quality environments within and around these communities . 
when that happens , we provide hope for the future and enhance the opportunities that these citizens have to improve their condition . 
this amendment , like our bill , would help do just that . 
the amendment , like our bill , essentially codifies an executive order that was issued by president clinton in 1994 . 
that order required all federal agencies to incorporate environmental justice considerations in their missions , develop strategies to address disproportionate impacts to minority and low-income people from their activities , and coordinate the development of data and research on these topics . 
although federal agencies have been working to implement this order and have developed strategies , there is clearly much more to do . 
we simply can not solve these issues overnight or even over a couple of years . 
we need to `` institutionalize '' the consideration of these issues in a more long-term fashion -- which this bill would do . 
in addition , just as the current policy was established by an administrative order , it could be swept away with a stroke of an administrative pen . 
to avoid that , we need to make it more permanent -- which is also what this amendment , like our bill , would do . 
it would do this by statutorily requiring all federal agencies to -- make addressing environmental justice concerns part of their missions ; develop environmental justice strategies ; evaluate the effects of proposed actions on the health and environment of minority , low-income , and native american communities ; avoid creating disproportionate adverse impacts on the health or environment of minority , low-income , or native american communities ; and collect data and carry out research on the effects of facilities on health and environment of minority , low-income , and native american communities . 
it would also statutorily establish two committees : the interagency environmental justice working group , set up by the executive order to develop strategies , provide guidance , coordinate research , convene public meetings , and conduct inquiries regarding environmental justice issues ; and a federal environmental justice advisory committee , appointed by the president , including members of community-based groups , business , academic , state agencies and environmental organizations . 
it will provide input and advice to the interagency working group . 
in a nutshell , what this amendment -- like our bill -- would do is require federal agencies that control the siting and disposing of hazardous materials , store toxins or release pollutants at federal facilities , or issue permits for these kinds of activities to make sure they give fair treatment to low-income and minority populations -- including native americans . 
the bill tells federal agencies , `` in the past these communities have endured a disproportionate impact to their health and environment . 
now we must find ways to make sure that wo n't be the case in the future. '' i urge adoption of the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise today to oppose this flawed , shortsighted energy bill , which does not give us a national energy policy , and provides more than $ 22 billion in taxpayer dollars to the private industry . 
i 'm not sure what era the authors of this bill think we 're living in , but this bill does not reflect our present or future energy needs in the 21st century . 
high gas prices are on the minds of many americans right now , and this bill does nothing to change that . 
the energy information administration has said that this will actually increase gas prices by three cents and will have almost no effect on production , consumption , or prices . 
i suspect my constituents in new mexico who are paying $ 2.32 a gallon will be concerned about that . 
but this is only one of the several reasons why i oppose this legislation . 
one of my great concerns is the provision that allows drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge , anwr . 
i have been to alaska and i 've seen the tremendously diverse wildlife that will be hurt if drilling occurs in the area . 
in addition , there are native tribes who depend on this wildlife , and they have asked congress and the state of alaska to stand up for them and oppose drilling . 
the environmental costs of this provision are sky-high , and benefits are little to none -- six month 's supply of oil . 
opening anwr would have no effect on our dependence on foreign oil . 
it is simply not worth it . 
how can the majority call this bill `` comprehensive '' when it does nothing to address fuel efficiency in our vehicles ? 
china will produce cars and trucks that are more energy-efficient than the u.s. fleet as soon as 2008 . 
that is why i strongly supported the amendment offered by rep . 
markey of massachusetts to raise the average of 25 miles per gallon to 33 miles per gallon over the next ten years . 
raising fuel economy standards would reap suv , pickup truck , and minivan owners a net savings of up to two thousand dollars in some cases . 
it would also alleviate the need for the u.s. to send over $ 25 million abroad each hour to pay for foreign oil . 
this amendment would have truly benefited our national security , our economy , and consumers . 
i think my constituents will also be interested in the provision in this bill shielding lawsuits against oil companies who used methyl tertiary-butyl ether , mtbe , which has contaminated 1 , 861 water systems serving 45 million americans in 29 states , including new mexico . 
documents from recent court cases reveal that the industry knew mtbe could cause severe harm to groundwater supplies as early as the mid 1980s . 
internal exxon memos from 1985 show the company knew mtbe pollutes groundwater more easily and is more difficult to treat than other gas additives . 
i find it incredibly disturbing that some members of this body place the pockets of oil companies ahead of the constituents in their districts whose lives have been adversely affected by this negligence . 
another grave concern that i have is section 631 , which is a $ 30 million dollar giveaway to a dangerous uranium mining technology that could seriously harm the water and health of 12 , 000 navajo indians . 
the proposed in-situ leach mining would leach uranium from an aquifer that is the sole source of drinking water for thousands of people in northwestern new mexico , thereby threatening their health and the integrity of their communities . 
the proposed mining would leave high levels of uranium in the drinking water supply , which is a slap in the face of navajo communities that are still struggling to get compensation for the diseases they are suffering from uranium mining conducted near them during the cold war . 
this is also unsound fiscal policy for an unproven type of mining . 
i offered an amendment to i brought two other amendments to the rules committee that were unfortunately not allowed a vote in the full house . 
one would create a federal renewable portfolio standard , so that by the year 2022 electric utilities , excluding rural electric cooperatives , would generate 15 percent of their energy from renewable energy sources , and 20 percent by the year 2027 . 
this bipartisan amendment was cosponsored by rep . 
mark udall of colorado , rep . 
leach of iowa , and rep . 
platts of pennsylvania . 
right now , the u.s. relies on foreign oil to meet roughly 60 percent of our oil needs . 
this inevitably leaves us dependent on unfriendly nations and harms our national security . 
we consume a quarter of the world 's oil , yet we only control two percent of its my last amendment , which i cosponsored along with rep . 
dingell of michigan and rep . 
boehlert of new york , was designed to fix unnecessary inequities in the hydropower dam relicensing process proposed in h.r. 6 , while still ensuring that the relicensing process proceeds quickly . 
this amendment applies all new rights given to a license applicant to any other party . 
all stakeholders -- states , tribes , private landowners , local businesses , fishermen , irrigators , conservationists , water sports enthusiasts , and other concerned citizens -- would be given the chance to participate in decisions that affect the health of american rivers . 
i believe it is only fair to include these stakeholders in the appeals process , and i was disappointed that this amendment was not allowed a vote on the floor . 
why does the majority insist on passing a bill full of tax incentives and subsidies for the oil and gas industry at a time of record profits for those companies ? 
even president bush said last week , `` i will tell you with $ 55 oil we do n't need incentives to oil and gas companies to explore. '' the massive royalty tax breaks for energy companies are ill conceived . 
this bill is anti-taxpayer , anti-environmental , and anti-consumer . 
we need a comprehensive energy policy that encourages safe domestic energy production , that will not drastically harm the environment and cause potential harm to thousands , and that does not contain billions of dollars in giveaways to big oil and gas companies . 
we need a real energy strategy that will help consumers , decrease our dangerous dependence on foreign oil , and keep us competitive internationally . 
i ask my colleagues to join me in voting against this flawed bill , and i hope we can work toward a more comprehensive energy bill in the future . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of the boehlert-markey amendment to raise fuel economy standards for automobiles and i thank the gentlemen offering this amendment for yielding me time . 
mr. chairman , we have heard it repeated over and over during debate on this bill from members on both sides of the aisle -- we must reduce our dependence on foreign sources of oil , and we must stabilize our energy costs . 
yet h.r. 6 does none of these things ! 
that is why i strongly support this amendment to raise the average of 25 miles per gallon to 33 miles per gallon over the next ten years . 
increasing the fuel economy is one important step we can take towards making all this rhetoric a reality . 
this amendment truly does benefit our national security , our economy , and consumers . 
raising fuel economy standards would reap suv , pickup truck , and minivan owners a net savings of up to two thousand dollars in some cases . 
it would also alleviate the need for the u.s. to send over $ 25 million abroad each hour to pay for foreign oil . 
these payments increase the trade imbalance , reduce the strength of the dollar , drive up-the cost of other imported goods , and stunts the growth of the nation 's gdp . 
in addition , many of the world 's major auto-makers recently signed an agreement with the government of canada that commits them to improving fuel economy standards by 25 percent by 2010 . 
china will soon produce cars and trucks that are more energy-efficient than the u.s. fleet . 
considering that the u.s. consumes a quarter of the world 's oil , we must keep pace with these other countries and improve our fuel economy standards . 
this amendment matches the rhetoric by truly reducing our dependence on foreign oil , helping our economy , and benefiting consumers . 
i urge my colleagues to support this amendment . 
mr. chairman , as yogi berra used to say `` it 's dja 2 vu all over again. '' i never would have imagined : during a time of war in the middle east , heading into the summer smog season in cities like washington , dc , with prices at the pump hitting $ 2.50 a gallon , we are here today telling our constituents that the wisest course of action -- the best america can do with its energy policy -- is `` more of the same '' . 
nonsense . 
we have choices . 
we always have choices . 
what we apparently do n't have -- yet -- is the leadership to make them . 
take national security . 
rather than heeding the clarion call of former cia director woolsey , former national security advisor mcfarlane and others to reduce our use of foreign oil by launching `` a major new initiative to curtail u.s. consumption through improved efficiency and the rapid development of ... .. 
petroleum fuel alternatives , '' this legislation actually increases our reliance on foreign oil , according to the independent energy information agency ( eia ) . 
what about economic growth ? 
we 've lost over 2.8 million manufacturing jobs since 2001 -- and no matter how hard today 's proponents try to spin it -- this bill is n't going to bring them back . 
to the contrary , by doling out additional tax breaks to already highly profitable oil companies , this legislation represents a monumental missed opportunity to target critical federal investments towards the rapidly expanding green industries of the 21st century . 
we should be the world leader in renewable energy and hybrid technologies -- not playing catch up to the danes , germans and japanese . 
in that regard , i regret that an amendment i offered with reps . 
inslee ( d-wa ) and holt ( d-nj ) to achieve this goal was blocked by the rules committee and will not be permitted a floor vote today . 
finally , no serious discussion about formulating a comprehensive national energy policy can take place without reference to the environmental impacts of our nation 's energy consumption . 
however , rather than having that discussion , this bill instead goes the other direction by deliberately chipping away at the clean water , clean air and national environmental policy acts . 
it once again proposes to despoil the anwr while ignoring the potential for far greater fuel gains through a long overdue increase in caf standards . 
and it brazenly extends a special interest liability waiver to mtbe manufacturers whose product is polluting groundwater in many of our districts -- leaving taxpayers to pick up the tab . 
in my home state of maryland , important statewide energy efficiency standards and local lng siting perogatives are preempted . 
and throughout the entire mr. chairman , america needs an energy policy that strengthens our national security , promotes long term economic growth and protects the environment . 
this is not that policy . 
i ask my colleagues to oppose this bill . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding time to me . 
i am torn , i will have to tell you . 
i support the president , and i support the president 's request for a national energy policy . 
but he sent a request for $ 6.7 billion of tax incentives , 72 percent of which was for renewables and energy efficiency ; and this base bill has 6 percent of the total for those two very important functions given the crisis that we face today . 
i am the cochairman of the renewable energy and energy efficiency caucus . 
over half of the house are members . 
we asked for four amendments last night to ratchet this back up some , just a little ; and all four were denied . 
that is not right . 
yet there are so many important things in this bill . 
so i am torn . 
i do not want to vote against the new residential personal 15 percent tax credit for photovoltaics that does not exist today , or the 20 percent tax credit for homeowners to install energy-efficiency improvements to their home , or charlie bass 's billion dollar rebate program for investment in renewable energy . 
but i am telling you , all of it together is 6 percent instead of 72 percent that our president asked us for . 
i am for the president . 
i am for his plan . 
and i hope that the conference report after we work with the senate has it all in there , because no one in this house wants an energy policy more than me . 
i have worked for a decade as an appropriator on those important investments , yet i asked for amendments to improve this bill , and every one of them was denied . 
i yield to the gentleman from massachusetts . 
reclaiming my time , mr. speaker , i want to move the process forward . 
i want to get to the senate . 
but i want a bill that is good for america . 
and i want the president 's proposal . 
i want the 72 percent on renewables and energy efficiency and alternatives and clean fuels , extend the tax credit so people will drive these hybrid cars . 
this does not even extend that tax credit . 
it is not enough . 
we need to do more . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. chairman , i rise to make remarks on the subrogation provision in the price anderson section of h.r. 6 . 
mr. chairman , i would like to discuss a provision in this bill that i have some concerns with . 
i have the pleasure of representing the department of energy sites in oak ridge , tennessee . 
this site is a natural asset that not only has a vitally important defense mission , a growing and prominent science mission , but an ongoing active environmental cleanup activity . 
i am proud of the caliber of contractors we have in oak ridge and the work they do for our country . 
i have some concerns with section 612 in the nuclear title of this bill . 
this provision , dealing with price anderson act indemnity , is reportedly designed to make doe contractors more `` financially accountable '' for their actions in support of the doe nuclear mission . 
the fact is that there are already a wide variety of mechanisms in place to ensure doe contractor accountability : from civil penalties of up to $ 110 , 000 a day ; to stop work orders ; to contract terminations ; to criminal fines and imprisonment . 
there is no evidence that additional sanctions are needed . 
in the 48-year history of price anderson , no government contractors have been found to have engaged in `` willful misconduct. '' are we willing to ask the government 's best contractors at all levels , the ones we want involved in this business , to face significantly increased financial risks that have and will likely remain uninsurable ? 
i believe that we presently have sufficient mechanisms in place to hold the contracting community accountable . 
the inclusion of this provision in the final energy bill will have the opposite effect as intended . 
rather than adding to financial accountability it will drive the most prudent and best performing contractors out of the doe nuclear market . 
i do not want to imagine a time when the activities at oak ridge are not being conducted by the most qualified doe contractors . 
if section 612 was enacted , i fear that it will have a detrimental impact on not only the defense mission of doe , but on most of the government 's nuclear science activities . 
i look forward to working with chairman barton and the energy and commerce committee to perfect this provision as we head to conference with the senate . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
i want to make some brief comments and then engage in some colloquy with the chairman . 
not to repeat anything that has been already said , but just to highlight why i can believe this is such an excellent work product , really three reasons : one , this chairman over the last 2 1/2 years has gone out into the country , both on the water side and on the energy side , gone into the depths of very complex places like our nuclear weapons complex , gone into our scientific research institutions , energy research , gone and seen demonstrations and the advancement of technology , and tried hard to understand what needs to be proposed . 
this chairman deserves tremendous credit . 
at no time in my 9 years on the committee on appropriations have i seen this kind of diligence that the gentleman from ohio ( chairman hobson ) has shown . 
secondly , it has been very fair and very bipartisan all along the way . 
third , this is one of the greatest assimilations of professional staff on both sides of the aisle , people with expertise and experience coming to the same subcommittee at the same time at a very important time . 
my hat is off to all of these individuals for their diligence . 
mr. chairman , if i may engage in a colloquy , i would like to say a few words on the importance of fielding a leadership-class computer for open science . 
for the past 2 years under your leadership , this subcommittee has provided additional funds to achieve this goal , and i thank you for this commitment . 
the oak ridge national laboratory and its partners were competitively selected to carry out this effort . 
with the additional funds provided by this bill , they will continue down that path . 
the i yield to the gentleman from ohio . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman . 
in the subcommittee bill in the area of fusion energy sciences , the subcommittee offered a very reasonable approach to funding fusion science , given the uncertainty surrounding the thermonuclear experimental reactor equipment . 
as the subcommittee report notes : `` if the united states expects to be a serious contributor to international fusion research in general , and iter in particular , the nation needs to maintain strong domestic research programs and user facilities to train the next generation of fusion scientists and engineers. '' i think that is exactly right , and i want to commend the gentleman and subcommittee staff for putting that strong statement in our report . 
mr. chairman , i want to highlight one area in particular that we fund and ask for the gentleman from ohio 's comments . 
our bill provides $ 5.1 million for `` compact stellarators and small-scale experiments. '' i understand that to be a reference to experiments such as the quasi-polloidal stellarator , or qps , that is being developed by the oak ridge national laboratory . 
mr. chairman , i ask the gentleman from ohio , is my understanding correct ? 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act . 
h.r. 6 is a continuation of the disastrous energy policy that the republican leadership has been trying to force through congress for the past four years . 
they claim that their bill will reduce the cost of a gallon of gasoline -- which now averages $ 2.24 per gallon -- and that it will reduce our reliance on foreign oil . 
unfortunately , both of these claims are false . 
in fact , enactment of h.r. 6 is likely to result in higher prices at the pump for americans . 
even the department of energy estimates the price of a gallon of gasoline will increase by three cents if this bill is signed into law . 
mr. chairman , h.r. 6 is a massive give-away to oil and gas companies . 
it provides $ 7.5 billion in tax breaks and billions more in royalty relief to companies like exxon , mobil , chevron , texaco and conocophillips , which are already earning record profits , supposedly to encourage these companies to drill more on our public lands and produce more gasoline and oil . 
as the president noted the other day , with the price of oil at $ 55 per barrel , these companies do not need any more encouragement to produce gasoline and oil . 
the bill also permits drilling in the artic refuge thereby putting at risk one of the last pristine areas in the world , simply to gain less than six months ' worth of oil . 
opening anwr does not make economic or environmental sense and we should not allow it to happen . 
instead , we should be increasing the corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards for cars and trucks sold in the united states to a more reasonable level . 
taking this step would save millions more gallons of gasoline than would be recovered from anwr , and raising these standards would help improve the quality of air that we breathe . 
this bill also weakens our nation 's environmental laws including the clean air act . 
mr. chairman , los angeles is consistently ranked among the worst cities in america when it comes to air pollution and smog . 
yet , if congress allows this bill to pass , the clean air act will be severely weakened and thousands of my constituents will see their health suffer because of the increased pollution and smog . 
we should be supporting a bill that strengthens the clean air act , not weakening it . 
mr. chairman , i am also very disappointed in the fact that this bill does nothing to address the massive defrauding of californian consumers at the hands of enron and other energy companies during the energy crisis of 2000 and 2001 . 
during that time , energy companies intentionally took generators off line , made false submissions about the prices they bought and sold gas for , and fabricated transactions , all with the intention to make as much money as possible . 
unfortunately , for thousands of californians , the energy companies succeeded in their efforts . 
in the summer of 2000 , energy companies overcharged california $ 2.5 billion . 
in 2001 , california paid approximately $ 26 billion for electricity because of the unscrupulous trading practices of the energy companies , raising the rates of every california ratepayer . 
mr. chairman , the federal energy regulatory commission has already ruled that the prices the energy companies charged california were not `just and reasonable ' as required by law . 
yet the companies have not had to pay any penalty for their criminal actions . 
this bill does nothing to change that , but it should . 
mr. chairman , the american people need us to enact legislation that will actually reduce the cost of gasoline and reduce our dependence on foreign oil . 
they want us to support a bill that makes real investments in renewable energy and energy conservation . 
i urge my colleagues to reject this special-interest legislation that puts big business before american consumers . 
mr. chairman , republican leaders say that the bill before us is comprehensive energy legislation that will meet the nation 's energy needs by protecting the environment and safeguarding consumers . 
well , these are the right goals , but there is only one problem : the bill accomplishes none of them . 
this is an antienvironment , anticonsumer , antitaxpayer bill . 
this bill fails to provide secure , sustainable , and affordable energy supplies . 
it does nothing about the most important energy issues facing our nation , like addressing global warming and reducing the nation 's dependence on foreign oil . 
instead , this bill lavishes taxpayer subsidies on big energy companies , while weakening our environmental laws . 
i have never encountered a time when the disconnect between rhetoric and reality has been so enormous . 
the president says he wants to save social security , yet he proposes a plan that would cut benefits and privatize the program . 
republicans in congress say they want limited government , yet they enact legislation intruding on the end-of-life decisions for the poor woman in florida . 
congressional leaders say they want to support high moral standards in government , yet they gut the ethics process in the house . 
and in this so-called energy bill we shower billions on special interests while ignoring our nation 's serious energy needs . 
the republican energy plan is a bonanza for the energy industry . 
while natural gas , heating oil , and gasoline prices have skyrocketed , we are going to be giving these companies more money . 
shell oil reported the highest corporate profits in the history of the united kingdom . 
exxonmobil announced the largest annual profit ever made by a public company , $ 25 billion . 
there are steps we could take to address our energy problems , but this legislation ignores them . 
we urgently need to reduce our dependence on foreign oil , yet america 's dependence on oil imports will grow by 75 percent over the next 20 years under this bill . 
the bill fails to address the market abuse and manipulation that caused the california energy crisis , costing consumers in california and western states billions of dollars . 
this bill carves a loophole in the laws protecting our coastlines , our forests , and our public lands . 
and under this bill , when a big oil company pollutes community drinking water , the oil companies will no longer be held responsible for cleaning it up . 
it is a windfall for exxonmobil , but an attack on communities all around this country facing contaminated drinking water . 
this bill makes the most significant changes to the clean air act in 15 years , allowing corporate polluters to expose 53 million americans to air pollution for years longer than current law . 
i urge my colleagues to oppose this fundamentally flawed legislation . 
mr. chairman , i have an amendment at the desk , and i ask unanimous consent to be able to go back to that amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
before i discuss the merits of this amendment that i seek to offer , i want to extend my appreciation to the chairman of the committee on energy and commerce , the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 , for his courtesy to me in allowing me to offer this amendment . 
i hope that i can convince him and my colleagues to support this amendment . 
a balanced energy bill should not just be production of more energy , but it should be conservation , reduction of the demand side of the equation , and i feel that the legislation is lacking in that regard . 
what my amendment would seek to do is to reduce the amount of oil that is wasted every single year . 
let me tell my colleagues what the amendment does not do . 
it does not mandate anything . 
it does not mandate an increase in the cafe standards for automobiles , although i think that is a good idea , but we do not mandate it . 
it does not mandate any new , burdensome regulations or expensive technologies , and it does not force americans to change their personal habits . 
it simply calls on the president to come up with a plan to lead in an effort to reduce the waste of oil . 
now , in this house , even this is controversial , as amazing as it may seem . 
this seems to be the only place in america where trying not to waste oil is a bad thing . 
the other body voted on this very same amendment , and they voted to accept it 99 to 1. now , i know we are going to hear in a minute that this is a back-door way to impose new standards or regulations . 
that is nonsense . 
the amendment only asks the president to come up with some ideas for not wasting oil , and there are a lot of different things that can be done : keeping tires properly inflated , improving air traffic management , ensuring that we reduce heavy truck idling , use fuel-efficient engine oil , weatherize homes that use heating oil . 
now , all that we have to have the president do is to come up with ideas and to appeal to the american people on a patriotic basis that they simply should be more conscious of the waste and perhaps shut off their cars when they run into a starbucks . 
i have no doubt the american people would respond . 
it worked in california . 
when we had our energy crisis a few years ago , we had a real energy crunch , and the people in california pitched in and , almost overnight , reduced energy waste by 4 to 10 percent , depending on whose numbers you accept . 
overnight , with no preparation , california achieved the small reduction that this amendment calls for . 
that is the least we can do . 
this legislation that is before us overall is going to increase the amount of oil we are going to have to bring in from the middle east . 
we are going to be more and more dependent . 
for our national security 's sake , we ought to simply reduce some of the waste in oil that goes on every single year . 
i am particularly struck that at a time when we have so many brave american men and women serving overseas , willing to sacrifice everything for us , we may not be able to muster the political will to ask the american people to chip in a little and reduce the waste of oil . 
if we defeat this amendment , we are waving the white flag . 
we are waving that white flag to surrender to the oil companies and the other special interests . 
we will be saying we simply will not even try . 
the greatest country in the world can not even find the will to achieve small reductions in the waste of oil . 
i do not think that is the message we want to send . 
i would ask that my colleagues support this . 
this is a minimal step . 
it is common sense . 
at least it can put us on the side of trying to reduce waste . 
the president is simply called on to exert that leadership to come up with a plan . 
if he does not think he can do it , well , he does not have to do it . 
but if he has some ideas , let us try to do at least the minimum we can do to reduce the waste of oil that is causing us to bring in and use , and in fact overuse , oil that we have to bring in from overseas . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. chairman , yes , it is . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the remaining time . 
this only calls on the president to come up with some ideas talking to the people that are heading up his agencies . 
if he thinks he needs legislative authority , he should ask for it . 
but at least it makes him focus on not wasting oil , and there is a lot of waste that goes on . 
and the president can simply appeal to people : tune up your motors , promote oil savings in the industrial sector , keep vehicles properly tuned , improve the tire inflations , improve air traffic management . 
some of these small things can add up to savings , and the savings we call for are the savings based on projections of future oil . 
i ask for an `` aye '' vote . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i would like to yield -- -- mr. chairman , i am willing to be as cooperative as possible , but i am not sure what the gentleman is suggesting . 
we have a member on our side who wants to speak in favor of the proposal . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the distinguished gentlewoman from the state of nevada ( ms. berkley ) xz4000240 . 
mr. chairman , whatever time we have , i would also yield to the gentlewoman from illinois ( mrs. biggert ) xz4000270 so she will have her full time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
in closing , i want to urge support for the amendment and also express to the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 , for whom i have the highest regard , that i would like to work with him , along with the gentleman from virginia ( mr. tom davis ) , to find a middle ground and to resolve any concerns that he has . 
i was unaware of his concerns , but i certainly would want to take them into serious consideration . 
mr. chairman , i urge an `` aye '' vote for the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , the republican leadership in the house has done everything it could possibly do to keep us from voting on this issue . 
they so badly wanted to protect the oil companies and to push the costs onto the local governments to take care of the polluted drinking water . 
we had a vote earlier , as the gentleman from texas ( chairman barton ) indicated , but it was on a procedural vote . 
now we have a vote on the merits . 
and if we do not support the capps amendment , we are keeping this unfunded mandate in the bill and our local governments are going to have to pick up the billions of dollars of costs to clean up the drinking water . 
that is why it is an unfunded mandate . 
and that is why i am speaking for the republican side of the chamber , because the republicans came in under the contract with america and said , we want to do away with unfunded mandates , and we will let them be challenged on the house floor . 
and i congratulate the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 for bringing this to the house floor under a procedure that the republicans allowed . 
states ' rights , that used to be a republican position . 
but this bill has the view that washington knows best . 
so we do not let states decide things anymore . 
they can not regulate , or participate even , in key energy decisions affecting states and localities such as lng facilities or relicensing of hydroelectric dams . 
washington knows best . 
and in this bill the most egregious example of arrogant centralization of power in washington is this massive unfunded mandate . 
we have heard that congress insisted that mbte be used for reformulated gas . 
that is not true . 
under the clean air act , we required reformulated gasoline , but we left it to the oil companies to decide how to do that , and they were using mbte before the 1990 clean air act was adopted . 
now that we know what they may have known in advance , that mbte can cause problems in our drinking water , they want to shift the costs from the oil companies that have caused the pollution to the local taxpayers . 
i remember when republicans would have objected to this . 
and i hope today they will object to it as well . 
and i guess the republican leadership fears that they might , because that is why they have gone to such enormous lengths to not allow anybody in this chamber to vote on this specific issue . 
every time we asked the committee on rules to allow a motion to strike be in order , they denied it . 
there was a point of order raised , and that way they were able to keep us from voting on it . 
but thanks to newt gingrich and the contract with america , we have this way of bringing the issue on the merits . 
vote for the capps amendment . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me . 
we called for reformulated gasoline . 
we did not spell out how that was to be done . 
we did not spell out the technology . 
we said to the oil companies , you figure out how to do it . 
they could have done it with ethanol . 
they chose reformulated gasoline . 
what we wanted was cleaner gasoline , and they did not have to use mbte . 
mr. chairman , if the gentleman will continue to yield , i will assume that it is a correct quote , but let me tell the gentleman that was not the only choice they could have made , and they knew evidently , from what we are learning , that mbte was a problem . 
they could have used ethanol . 
mr. chairman , if the gentleman will continue to yield , he is correct . 
but we did not know at that time that it was going to pollute the drinking water . 
mr. chairman , the chairman of the committee on science knows what is right . 
the energy bill before us today is bad for the consumer , bad for the environment , and it does not make us energy independent . 
in fact , it is the ultimate reason we are insecure as a nation . 
in fact , by promoting the interests of corporations over consumers and pollution over conservation , this bill makes the united states much less secure . 
h.r. 6 will harm more than just our environment , however . 
america 's continued reliance on middle east oil for the majority of our energy needs is the single largest factor that contributes to our lack of national security . 
it is time we stopped all efforts to drill in anwr because this is only a stop-gap measure . 
instead , we need real energy independence , and that will only come when we start focusing our efforts as a nation on clean , renewable sources of energy , conservation , and efficiency . 
it would be hypocritical for anyone who cares about our nation 's well-being to vote for this legislation . 
i urge my colleagues , join me , vote against it . 
madam chairman , i want to commend my colleagues for offering this sensible amendment . 
we should not even be having this discussion because drilling in anwr will not make us energy independent and it will not end our nation 's reliance on middle east oil . 
drilling in anwr will do little to reduce our current dependence on foreign oil because it will take more than 10 years , yes , more than 10 years to process what little oil may be there . 
in fact , if we spent half the time promoting legislation that encourages the use of renewable energy that we have discussing drilling in anwr , we would be close to developing a sensible energy policy that would ensure real energy independence . 
we would invest in alternative renewable clean energy , conservation , and efficiency . 
that is why i will support this sensible amendment , and i encourage my colleagues to do the same . 
mr. chairman , i wonder how many americans have bought a car and wondered why their gas mileage was not what had been advertised . 
well , it is because the fuel economy numbers advertised by automobile manufacturers are based on 30-year-old fuel economy tests , tests that have not been adjusted for today 's realities , and that leads americans to be regularly misled by inaccurate labels . 
the automobile industry has changed significantly over the last 3 decades , but the epa standards are stuck in the past , overestimating fuel economy data . 
i support this amendment . 
it will require the epa to update its testing standards so that consumers will have accurate fuel economy information in the future . 
mr. speaker , h.r. 6 , which the house passed earlier today , is called the energy policy act of 2005 . 
but the only real policies to be found in this immoral legislation are tax breaks for polluters , swollen gasoline prices , and continued reliance on fossil fuels of the past . 
this legislation fails to even mention climate change or global warming which scientists of all stripes acknowledge is caused at least in part by high levels of carbon dioxide emissions from automobiles . 
it fails to correct the matter of mtbe , a gasoline additive that has leaked into the earth and tarnished our drinking water , except , however , to waive liabilities for mtbe providers . 
most significant of all , mr. speaker , this legislation fails to truly address america 's reliance on middle east oil . 
of the 21 million barrels consumed by the united states each day , 14 million barrels are imported , making middle east oil the united states ' main source of energy . 
much of this oil is imported from countries that do not share america 's commitment to democracy and our commitment to human rights , countries like saudi arabia , libya , and venezuela . 
it is obvious in this energy bill that those who claim that drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge in alaska will cure our nation 's energy policy do not know much about how oil is produced . 
drilling in anwr will do little to reduce our current dependence on foreign oil because it will take a full decade to process what little oil may be there in the first place . 
that does not sound like a comprehensive energy strategy to me . 
by continuing to purchase middle east oil by the boatload , we are failing to take advantage of life-changing renewable energy technologies while continuing to promote our national insecurity by providing billions of dollars each year to repressive regimes . 
the oil dollars that go to oppressive middle east regimes do not , of course , help the poor people in these countries . 
instead , they line the already thick pockets of the fat-cat ruling elite . 
in this way , u.s. policies actually discourage democracy in the middle east because we continue to help maintain the economic gap between the rich and the poor . 
in truth , this failure to reduce our dependence on middle east oil along with president bush 's supremely misguided invasion of iraq have combined to make americans less secure , not more secure . 
the bush administration has falsely labeled the war in iraq , much like the latest energy bill , as the essence of protecting our national security , when in fact both contribute to our lack of security . 
already more than 1 , 500 american soldiers and tens of thousands of iraqi civilians have been killed in this war , not to mention the more than 12 , 000 troops who have been gravely wounded . 
hardly the stuff of a national security . 
let us never forget that the invasion of iraq was a war of choice against a country that never posed a threat to the united states and never possessed relationships with international terrorist groups like al qaeda . 
president bush claims that things are going well in iraq , demonstrated by the fact that 150 , 000 iraqi soldiers `` have been adequately trained. '' but if 150 , 000 iraqi soldiers have been trained , then why do 150 , 000 american soldiers remain in the country ? 
why do our troops continue to die for a war that was a mistake from the very beginning ? 
if president bush continues to support a misguided war that is draining our national resources , and if the republicans will not work to reduce our dependence on foreign oil , how can they possibly claim to be securing america against the threat of terrorism ? 
clearly , much more needs to be done to make america secure . 
mr. speaker , i will soon reintroduce the smart security resolution , legislation to secure america for the future by preventing the threat of terrorism ; reducing nuclear stock piles ; eliminating the possible use of nuclear weapons through diplomatic means ; and establishing a new apollo project to secure america 's energy independence . 
i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in this effort to truly secure america for the future . 
mr. chairman , i urge strong support of the castle-markey amendment to h.r. 6 . 
this amendment would ensure that the states have a proper role in the siting of energy facilities . 
there is this photograph of a large tanker in boston harbor . 
i do not have the good fortune to represent a city like boston , but there are four , five or six communities in my congressional district , communities of 1 , 000 ; 5 , 000 ; or 10 , 000 people where a facility like this would change the basic characteristics of that community forever . 
some people are passionately for the lng facilities . 
other people are passionately against the lng facilities . 
i have told these folks they get the chance to decide and not a bureaucrat 3 , 000 miles away . 
vote for this amendment . 
mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentleman from massachusetts for raising this point of order . 
when the current majority took over the control of the congress , one of their first actions was to pass the unfunded mandated reform act ; and as a state legislator , i applauded their efforts because it was appropriate and fitting . 
the bipartisan legislation provided a funding cap that congress could impose on states and local governments . 
mr. speaker , here , today , i believe that we are breaking that commitment to our local governments and to communities if we pass this energy bill without moving to strike the legislation to mtbe . 
unless we impose a spending cap , we are imposing too great of a financial burden on local government that is already hard pressed throughout our country . 
there is no doubt that the mtbes pose a significant environmental health threat to our communities . 
if released into the water table , a small portion of mtbes can ruin a community 's supply of drinking water . 
in addition , exposure to this has resulted , as we know , in a number of cases of cancer , birth defects , and other illnesses . 
mr. speaker , it is also evident that the legislation , i believe , is a direct violation of the unfunded mandated reform act . 
the mtbe provisions presented in the energy bill would restrict the existing rights of states and communities to seek compensation under the law . 
the same provisions would impose larger financial costs of the cleanup of those communities throughout our country ; and notwithstanding the argument of a member of $ 50 million , that is but the tip of the iceberg . 
approximately half the members of our house have served in our state legislatures . 
i was a past president of the national conference of state legislatures . 
i will enter into the record at the end of my statement their opinion , in fact , that this is a violation of the unfunded mandates act that they , too , supported in the mid-1990s when the majority enacted this very important piece of legislation . 
for my own district , the 20th district in california , we believe the costs could exceed $ 150 million because of the large number of sites that we have . 
this bill eliminates my district 's ability to hold producers liable for the problem and help them assist in cleaning up . 
on top of this , i believe that this does little to deal with the threats . 
i urge that we support the point of order of the gentleman from massachusetts . 
state legislatures , april 20 , 2005 . 
dear representatives : the national conference of state legislatures urges you to support a point of order against h.r. 6 for its inclusion of unfunded federal mandates that would be imposed on state and local governments with the adoption of this legislation . 
ncsl further urges you to strike those sections that include these unfunded mandates that exceed the unfunded mandates reform act threshold as identified by the congressional budget office 's preliminary review of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
during the 108th congress , unfunded federal mandates exceeding $ 51 billion were imposed on state and local governments . 
the house 's fy2006 budget resolution , h. con . 
res. 95 , would impose unfunded mandates of over $ 30 billion in fy2006 alone if adopted by a conference committee . 
the unfunded mandates proposed in h.r. 6 would serve to worsen what already is an unacceptable situation . 
thank you for your consideration of our concerns and we are hopeful you will vote not to impose further unfunded mandates on state and local governments . 
respectfully , representative joe hackney , senator beverly gard , mr. chairman , i rise today to express my support of the house version of the energy and water appropriations act for fiscal year 2006 , and i urge my colleagues to vote in support of this important measure . 
i commend chairman hobson and ranking member visclosky for their work on this bill . 
i believe it is a good start for addressing our nation 's water infrastructure and energy research needs , especially given the budget constraints . 
as a farmer who works the land in colorado 's san luis valley , i know and understand water issues , and i ca n't emphasize how important it is to invest back into local water infrastructure . 
without this investment , i fear we will continue to see a decline in the management of this irreplaceable resource -- water is the lifeblood of our rural communities . 
the house energy and water appropriations bill would provide $ 29.7 billion for the army corps of engineers , the bureau of reclamation and department of energy , a $ 329 million increase over last year 's funding level . 
i am pleased the committee included funding for three important projects which i had requested back in march for the 3rd district of colorado . 
first and foremost , the committee included $ 56 million in funding for construction of the animas-la plata project . 
this funding level represents a $ 4 million increase over the president 's budget request and comes on the heels of a colorado delegation letter which i spearheaded back in march . 
i would also like to thank the committee for the inclusion of language which directs a larger percentage of program funds towards construction , not administrative costs . 
completion of the a-lp will provide a much-needed water supply in the southwest corner of our state for both indian and non-indian municipal and industrial purposes . 
it will also fulfill the intent of a carefully negotiated settlement agreement in the mid-1980s to ensure the legitimate claims of the two colorado ute tribes could be met without harm to the existing uses of their non-tribal neighbors . 
since 2002 , the bureau of reclamation has made much progress , and work has been completed or initiated on many key project features . 
this increased funding will allow the bureau to move forward in a way that will ensure timely completion of the a-lp and avoid costly delays . 
the fy2006 energy and water appropriations bill also includes $ 315 , 000 for the arkansas river habitat restoration project . 
the u.s. army corps of engineers in cooperation with the city of pueblo , colorado has completed 90 percent of the project including fish habitat structures along a 9-mile section of the river below pueblo dam through downtown pueblo . 
this funding would be used to complete the project which is an important environmental restoration project for the project . 
finally , the committee also provided a $ 1.021 million appropriation for the army corps of engineers to engage in operations and maintenance at trinidad lake , colorado ; this amount represents almost a $ 100 , 000 increase from the fy2005 funding level . 
trinidad lake is a multipurpose project for flood control , irrigation and recreation , and was authorized by the 1958 flood control act . 
the lake is located in southern colorado on the purgatoire river , and bordered by the historic santa fe trail . 
the dam itself is an earthfill structure 6 , 860 feet long and 200 feet high , and constructed with some 8 million cubic yards of earth and rock . 
each project is an important part of improving water related infrastructure . 
as this bill proceeds through the appropriations process , i will continue the fight to preserve funding for the 3rd district of colorado . 
mr. speaker , on rollcall no . 
112 , i cast a vote of `` yea '' which should have been `` nay. '' it is my wish to correct this matter for the record . 
had i been present , i would have voted `` no . '' mr. chairman , the johnson amendment requires the epa to change the testing procedures that auto companies use to determine the fuel economy numbers that go on the dealer label . 
her amendment requires auto companies to do one test for labeling and a separate test for cafe . 
the language in this amendment costs the companies approximately twice as much as the simpler testing they are doing now . 
this goes to the heart of what we are doing to the auto industry now , unintentionally perhaps , and that is beating up on them ; and we should not do that . 
the rogers amendment deals with the need for improved dealer label accuracy , while only requiring one test . 
instead of requiring the epa to change testing procedures , the rogers amendment requires the epa to change the adjustment factors that the epa currently uses to make the fuel economy label accurate . 
this is the way to go . 
it achieves the goal we all want to have , accuracy , in a much more reasonable and a much less expensive way . 
it is not a fudge . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in objection to h.r. 6 , the energy bill under consideration by the full house of representatives this week . 
sadly , the energy bill does little to reduce our nation 's dependence on foreign oil , decrease rising oil and gas prices , increase our national security , protect our environment , or encourage investment in renewable energy sources . 
in fact , mr. chairman , of the $ 8 billion in tax breaks in this bill , only about 6 percent goes toward energy efficiency and renewable sources of energy , and the rest goes to the already booming oil and natural gas industry that already receives more than generous incentives . 
and we 're not getting anything back from this disproportionate investment . 
the administration 's own energy information administration acknowledges that with this bill , `` changes to production , consumption , imports , and prices are negligible. '' they even find that gasoline prices under this legislation would increase by between three and eight cents per gallon . 
clearly , this measure is a short sighted political move aimed at winning friends and contributors instead of what it should be -- a long term plan to ease the energy burden on consumers and make the united states safer and energy independent -- and that 's a shame . 
as a member of the committee on government reform 's subcommittee on energy and natural resources , i know all too well how energy needs shape our foreign policy and our national security agenda . 
our desperate need for oil pits us against china and india . 
it forces us into a position of funding governments and world leaders who funnel our payments to groups that are currently planning to do us harm . 
and our need for oil from foreign markets forces our brave armed service men and women into harm 's way to protect our vital interests . 
but oil need not be the lead driver in our national security policy . 
we have resources at home like water , wind and sun that , with research and investment , can produce cleaner energy sources and cheaper alternatives , can reduce our dependence on foreign oil , and can create jobs and spur spending here at home . 
just outside my district , with the water heaving over the niagara falls , we convert water into electricity every day . 
it 's a shame this bill does n't address similar options around the country . 
all too often i hear from my constituents in western new york that too many low-income families , disabled individuals and senior citizens are not able to afford their energy costs . 
my district is particularly hard hit with extreme cold temperatures , which cause more families to face unaffordable heating costs and put families and seniors at a higher risk of life-threatening illness or death if their homes are too cold in the winter or too hot in the summer . 
i will vote against the energy bill on the floor because this legislation ignores my constituents ' needs and adds to their troubles through higher prices , an increased tax burden , more pollution , and less national security . 
i urge my colleagues to do the same . 
madam chairman , i rise today in strong opposition to the energy policy act of 2005 . 
madam chairman , this bill represents a lost opportunity . 
now , more than ever , we need an energy bill that will wean the nation off of foreign oil . 
we need to do this so hard-working americans are no longer subjected to the ever-rising costs of gasoline and we have to do this for the safety and security of our nation . 
in my home district , the average price for a gallon of regular unleaded is $ 2.22 compared to $ 1.76 just one year ago . 
yet , the bill before us will do nothing to relieve americans from the skyrocketing costs of gas . 
my colleagues , even the bush administration recognizes this ; with the energy information administration saying that the bill would actually increase gas prices rather than reduce them . 
what 's worse is that while the bill does nothing to relieve americans of their burden at the gas pump , it also takes an additional $ 7.5 billion out of their pockets as a tax giveaway to oil , gas , coal and nuclear industries -- industries that are earning record profits -- without setting a course towards energy independence . 
the president himself said , just last week , `` with $ 55 oil we do n't need incentives for oil and gas companies to explore . 
there are plenty of incentives. '' this congress needs to establish an energy policy that sets america free from its dependence on imported oil . 
yet , only seven percent of the tax incentives in this bill will go towards renewable energy and energy efficiency -- leaving us to be reliant on the same old energy sources . 
h.r. 6 is , unfortunately , par for the course for the republican leadership , which has turned a blind eye to scientific discovery -- be it medical , physical , or otherwise . 
america can not continue to be a world leader with regard to scientific discovery unless we invest and provide incentives , including for energy sources of the future . 
in addition to its misdirected energy priorities , the bill contains several dirty little footnotes . 
it will pollute our air and water and exploit our federal lands . 
it exempts mtbe manufacturers from cleaning up the groundwater they polluted -- violating our nation 's longstanding polluter pay policy . 
it will let oil and gas companies off the hook from the safe water drinking act -- allowing them to skirt water standards . 
mr. speaker , we can not continue to go down the same worn out path . 
we must set the nation on a course to energy independence which means promoting cleaner , less expensive energy that we control . 
that requires a balanced energy policy that aids domestic production but , more importantly , sends us in a new direction by investing in renewable and energy efficient technologies . 
unfortunately , h.r. 6 does not meet this goal , leaving our senate colleagues to find a better way . 
hopefully , they will be able to craft a bill that achieves a better balance than this legislation . 
i urge a `` no '' vote on h.r. 6 . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time . 
mr. chairman , i agree with the chairman of the committee on science . 
we have an opportunity to do better . 
i hope that we do better as we improve the hydrogen title of this bill . 
perhaps the other body will have a title that will work a little bit better in the hydrogen area , and i hope that we will catch the vision of a different way of getting around . 
imagine that one takes delivery today in spartanburg , south carolina of a brand new bmw . 
it runs on hydrogen . 
it is powered and controlled by a computer , maybe made by ibm , maybe software by microsoft . 
these are companies committed to making hydrogen and to making smart cars work . 
they get in the car , they program it to go somewhere , they take their hands off the wheel . 
it seems like science fiction , but the good news is that we on the committee on science are in the business of making science fiction into reality , and it is not that far away . 
if we can make a commitment like we made when we decided to go to the moon , we can get there . 
we as a nation can decide that now is the time to really commit to forging ahead to create a hydrogen economy . 
now is the time to be spending good money on that . 
it is time to stop simple spending and start thoughtful investing . 
there is a big difference . 
in this bill we have the opportunity to do just that , to invest serious money in the technology that can lead us to a hydrogen economy . 
if we do that , we will do good work for the american people and we will lessen our dependence on middle eastern oil . 
and , by the way , it is also about jobs . 
if we can retool the automobile and make it so that we not just develop the technology but also produce it here , we can tremendously expand the economy of the united states , providing jobs and , while doing that , cleaning up the environment and reducing the oil pressure on the middle east . 
that is a trifecta . 
let us get about it with a better title . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts for yielding me this time . 
i rise in opposition to this rule and to the underlying bill . 
the republican majority has brought to the floor a bill that subsidizes the past at the expense of the future , and we should not vote for it . 
i am particularly troubled about the amnesty this bill gives to mtbe polluters and the effect it has on my home state of california . 
in 1990 , the oil industry began adding mtbe to gasoline in order to make it burn cleaner . 
the industry knew that mtbe was a harsh groundwater pollutant and had safe alternatives at its fingertips . 
but the industry used mtbe anyway . 
25 years later , over 18 , 000 water systems in 29 states are infected with mtbe , including three wells in my home district of sacramento . 
making our drinking water clean will cost an estimated $ 29 billion nationwide . 
i think polluters should pay that bill . 
our cities and towns agree . 
not surprisingly , however , the texas-based mtbe manufacturers think they deserve a bailout . 
so they went to their friends in washington , and the republican majority gave them a blanket amnesty for cleaning up their pollution . 
it is unbelievable and our constituents should be horrified . 
mr. speaker , we should be investing in renewables and conservation . 
we should be strengthening our natural security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil . 
we should be doing a lot of things today . 
protecting guilty polluters is not one of them . 
i urge my colleagues to defeat this rule and the underlying bill . 
