mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i do not believe , if the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 would corroborate here , that there is going to be opposition to this amendment . 
i yield to the gentleman from texas . 
well , he has not heard me speak yet . 
mr. chairman , the sheer weight of logic plus our considerable mutual charm i think has some hope in that direction . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in favor of this amendment . 
please allow me to say two things before i proceed . 
first , i want to express my gratitude to the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 and to the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo ) xz4003220 and their committee staffs . 
believe me , a lot of work went into this in the midst of all of the other pressures of various other items that were before them . 
this means a great deal . 
in every one of these bills , particularly in this energy bill , people have things to which they are deeply committed , including my good friend , the gentleman from arizona ( mr. flake ) xz4001340 , with respect to both the philosophy involved and what the consequences might be from any given item . 
now , in the great scheme of things , this might not seem like a lot to a lot of people , but for those of us who understand what it is , if we can actually grow our own renewable energy with sugarcane in the form of biomass can actually provide by being converted to ethanol . 
that is why this is here . 
i am not certain , and the gentleman from hawaii ( mr. case ) xz4000690 will speak shortly about it too , as to whether there are larger , logistical issues involved or political issues . 
but i can tell my colleagues this : whatever arguments there are out there about whether sufficient time or funds are being committed to renewable energy , alternative energy , this is something that we can do . 
and this is something where we are getting support from the oil and gas companies in texas , in louisiana . 
hawaii and florida can join in , because we are growing sugarcane , sugarcane can become ethanol , ethanol can help reduce the dependency on oil and gas . 
and we can work with the oil and gas companies to see to it that we have blends that will allow us to reduce our dependency on foreign oil , on foreign sources . 
that is what this is about . 
we can grow our own energy in hawaii if we get the chance to do this . 
and the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 and the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo ) xz4003220 have recognized this . 
they are going to give us the chance , and if this works , i am in contact with people , for example , like at southern university in louisiana , just speaking with them tonight , with the idea that perhaps we can take the sugarcane industry , and instead of always having to be in the position of having to defend ourselves against wage slavery around the rest of the world , that we will be able to have good jobs , good income in the united states of america , and be growing our own energy . 
that is what this is about , and that is why i ask for the support of my colleagues on this . 
i yield to the gentleman from texas . 
i will do that , mr. chairman . 
mr. chairman , this is a very , very big opportunity and challenge for us that i think we will be able to meet . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
if the gentleman will yield , i will be happy to bring in prickly pears . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman from arizona ( mr. flake ) xz4001340 yield his remaining time to me ? 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i might consume . 
might i just say for the edification of my good friend , the gentleman from arizona ( mr. flake ) xz4001340 , that when you take those two cans of coke that you are talking about , just tell me whether the diet coke is cheaper than the other one that has sugar in it . 
i do not think so . 
you are not saving any money that way . 
that is not going to work . 
but i would be happy some other time perhaps to have a full blown discussion about this at another point . 
chairman dreier , ranking member slaughter and the members of the committee on rules . 
i offer this amendment to h.r. 6 with the hope of reducing our nation 's reliance on oil and advancing our efforts in hawaii to become more energy self-sufficient . 
this is philosophically consistent with other provisions of h.r. 6 encouraging energy production . 
my amendment authorizes a 3-year demonstration program for the production of ethanol from sugar cane in hawaii . 
specifically , $ 8.0 million would fund a $ 1.00 per gallon payment to refiners and 8.0 million gallons of ethanol fuel . 
this pilot program would parallel the existing corn program to show that the process can be applicable to cane sugar and can be replicated on a larger scale . 
nationally , the sugar cane industry is currently formulating a program to process 700 , 000 tons of cane sugar into ethanol . 
with a large domestic surplus of sugar , and the possibility of additional imported sugar being allowed into the domestic market through free trade agreements , a program of such size would stabilize domestic markets and produce a significant volume of ethanol . 
this pilot project will provide invaluable insight on problems that may arise with a national program . 
the state of hawaii has passed a law that goes into effect on april 1 , 2006 , mandating a 10 percent ethanol blend for gasoline consumption in the state . 
oil refineries are building ethanol storage and blending facilities in anticipation of meeting the requirement . 
locally produced ethanol would be less expensive than importing the estimated 45 million gallons of ethanol needed to fulfill the 10 percent requirement . 
because of the relatively low domestic price of sugar , hawaii producers for some time been considering and now planning ethanol production from the cane sugar that would otherwise have gone into the domestic sugar market . 
the state of hawaii is prepared to take advantage of this within months . 
however , this amendment is also supported by the other sugar cane growers who would like to identify any problems that might result from the large scale production of sugar cane ethanol . 
this amendment was developed after the house energy and commerce committee completed its markup but the amendment has been signed off by the majority side of the energy committee . 
i urge my colleagues to allow floor debate on this demonstration project and rule this amendment in order . 
thank you very mush for your consideration . 
mr. chairman , i yield my remaining time to the gentleman from hawaii ( mr. case ) xz4000690 . 
mr. chairman , i would like to thank chairman hobson for his leadership in bringing this important legislation to the floor , and i also thank him for his continued commitment to the yucca mountain project . 
as a fiscal conservative , i share his concerns regarding the federal government 's liability as result of project delays , and i would like to work with the committee to ensure the department of energy ( doe ) fulfills its statutory and contractual obligation to accept spent fuel for disposal . 
to resolve this issue the committee has recommended the spent fuel recycling initiative ( initiative ) , which links interim storage to reprocessing . 
i strongly believe interim storage of commercial spent fuel should not take place a doe sites like savannah river . 
however , i do agree that interim storage is an issue congress and the doe should examine . 
one argument posed by opponents of this initiative is that interim storage would create a `` de facto '' permanent repository , which undermines our national policy of disposing high-level radioactive waste in a permanent deep , geologic repository . 
while i share the concern , this argument only has merit if interim storage is dealt with as a separate issue . 
but , the committee 's report expressly states the initiative has `` linked '' interim storage to reprocessing . 
moreover , this bill fully funds the yucca mountain project . 
these facts read together clearly imply that the doe implementation of the initiative 's examining the merits of this initiative also requires us to review its other core element -- reprocessing commercial spent fuel . 
the committee correctly notes prior to the mid-1970 's , the federal government encouraged the reprocessing of commercial spent fuel and even developed reprocessing facilities in several states including south carolina . 
although opponents often cite proliferation concerns as a reason not to reprocess spent fuel , the report states `` there is no evidence that current [ european ] reprocessing operations pose a significant proliferation risk. '' equally as important , i agree with the committee that reduced volumes gained through reprocessing could avert the need to expand yucca or site a second repository . 
finally , reprocessing can also reduce the radiotoxicity of high-level waste , although i agree the committee 's initiative presents our nation a possible solution to finally shipping high-level waste out of states like south carolina more quickly than anticipated , i do not believe the initiative could be implemented without further congressional authorization . 
under the nuclear waste policy act ( nwpa ) , the doe 's authority to store commercial spent fuel on an interim basis at existing doe facilities expired january 1 , 1990 . 
moreover , the nwpa does not allow the doe to construct a monitored retrievable storage ( mrs ) facility until yucca mountain receives a construction license . 
thus , if the doe desires to implement the core elements of the initiative , i along with the committee request the doe provide to congress any necessary authority it may need to execute it . 
i have no doubt chairman hobson 's intentions with this initiative are to support the nuclear power industry by ensuring we have a permanent repository for commercial spent fuel , and he is to be commended for bringing this matter to the 109th congress ' attention . 
the issue of nuclear waste disposal is complex , and it will require big ideas for safe disposition of our high-level waste . 
the spent fuel recycling initiative is one of those ideas , and i look forward to working with my colleagues and my constituents to ensure it is the best policy to pursue . 
mr. speaker , of all the things to come on the floor of the house of representatives and claim with a straight face that we should have a debate about , claiming that what is in the bill with regards to the mtbe is an unfunded mandate , is one of the biggest whoppers i can imagine , with all due respect . 
i want to read some of the language of the bill , and i have to put my reading classes on to do it . 
we specifically authorize in the bill additional funding , $ 50 million , to avoid the creation of unfunded mandates . 
it is in the bill , a specific allocation of $ 50 million to avoid the creation of unfunded mandates . 
the leaking underground storage trust fund has a balance right now of $ 2 billion . 
the bill before us dedicates some of that balance specifically to go out and inspect existing underground storage tanks , to enforce if those inspections find that there is a leak , and to fund improvements in the operation of these underground storage tank programs . 
it is in the bill . 
that is not an unfunded mandate . 
if anything , it is a specific allocation in the bill to enforce the program that we have , to put additional funds into it and to make sure that we prevent the problem . 
that is funded . 
that is not unfunded . 
now , the real debate is not whether it is an unfunded mandate or not . 
the real debate is what we should do about mtbe ; and as my good friend , the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions ) xz4003670 , has already pointed out , we can have a legitimate policy debate about that . 
the bill allows states that want to ban mtbe to do it . 
that is not mandating the states . 
that is telling the states , you want to use mtbe in your gasoline supply to get cleaner air , fine . 
you do not want to use it , that is fine , too . 
the bill also has a provision in it that over the course of the next , i think , 10 years , depending on some scientific studies and various things , there could be a point in time that we have a federal ban on mtbe . 
it may not , it may , but it could happen . 
people forget in the 1991 clean air amendments we required an oxygen amendment to make the gasoline burn cleaner in nonattainment areas . 
there were two ways to do that at the time : use ethanol or use mtbe . 
there was not a mandate to use mtbe , but there was a requirement in nonattainment areas you had to do something in terms of putting more oxygen in the gasoline to make it burn cleaner . 
most of the market went to mtbe . 
we then found out , and we knew before the fact actually , that if the gasoline that had mtbe leaked out into the environment that the mtbe would disassociate a little bit quicker because it was more missable , and it would get into the water supply , or water table , and it causes an odor . 
so there have been a number of lawsuits . 
the gentlewoman mentioned two of them , in lake tahoe , one in california , where there have been out-of-court settlements for several millions of dollars because of that odor . 
that did not establish that mtbe is a defective product . 
this bill does have a safe harbor , not just for mtbe but also for ethanol , that by definition of the product , the chemical composition , that it is not defective ; but if you use it negligently , you can be sued upon it . 
if the right warnings are not with it , you can be sued . 
there are all kinds of reasons . 
you can sue and win , as has been shown ; but that does not mean that it in and of itself is defective . 
interestingly enough , in one of the cases the gentlewoman from california quoted , the amount of the settlement was less than the legal fees that the law firm representing the community in california claimed . 
so that community is now suing their law firm , saying you ripped us off , you are asking for more money to settle the suit than we got to clean the water up . 
mr. speaker , i want to rise in strong support of the rule . 
it is a good rule in spite of some of the comments that been made about it . 
the process has been fair . 
i want to make a few very quick remarks . 
the committees of jurisdiction each held an open markup . 
the committee that i chair , the markup , including opening statements , took 3 1/2 days . 
we considered every amendment that was offered ; and we accepted , i would say , 40 percent of the amendments . 
many of those were accepted from members of the minority of my committee who ended up voting against the bill ; but because i felt it improved the bill , we took the amendments enthusiastically . 
eighty amendments were offered at the committee on rules yesterday . 
i believe that the committee on rules has made in order about 30 of those . 
it may be a little bit fewer than that , but a large number of amendments have been made in order , including a substitute by the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 , the ranking member of the committee on energy and commerce . 
we accepted amendments on the floor on some of the more controversial areas in the bill . 
my good friend , the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. frank ) xz4001400 , was speaking earlier about the lng siting provision . 
the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle ) xz4000700 will have an amendment on the floor sometime tomorrow to strike that provision . 
i happen to think the lng siting provision is a good part of the bill . 
we are importing more net liquefied natural gas , and we are going to import more . 
we need to find areas to site those facilities . 
it is interstate commerce , so the federal energy regulatory commission does have primary jurisdiction ; but the bill before us says the states shall be involved , not may be , shall be . 
the bill before us has a specific list of conditions that have to be considered , including population density and alternative siting . 
the bill before us has a first-time-ever guarantee that the states have the automatic right to go in and inspect these facilities for safety conditions . 
we have worked very hard on that lng siting provision to make sure that states are very involved ; but ultimately , on the final decision , as it should be because this is interstate commerce , the ferc is the one that makes the final decision . 
so , mr. speaker , i know this is a contentious bill . 
it has been before the house each of the last two congresses . 
we have passed it . 
the last congress we passed the conference report , but the senate did not bring it up . 
today or tomorrow , we want to pass this bill . 
we want to go to conference with the senate later this spring , bring back the conference report and put a bill on the president 's desk to help our energy future . 
i would urge a `` yes '' vote on the rule . 
it is a good rule and fair to all involved . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself 2 minutes . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
passage of this comprehensive bill will ensure a more affordable , environmentally friendly energy supply . 
america 's prosperity and national security are at stake . 
the bill before us today is a balanced bill and it is a bipartisan bill . 
it will have lower energy prices over time for consumers , it will help spur our economy , create hundreds of thousands of jobs , and take unprecedented steps to promote greater energy conservation and efficiency . 
the energy policy act of 2005 , among other things , improves our nation 's electric transmission capacity ; promotes a cleaner environment with new innovations on alternative power sources , the clean cities authorization , and the hydrogen fuel cell car program ; it promotes clean coal technologies , provides incentives for renewable energies , such as biomass , wind , solar and hydroelectricity . 
the bill would provide leadership in energy conservation by establishing new mandatory efficiency requirements for federal buildings , and expands the energy star program to tell american consumers what products save the most energy . 
the bill also provides an efficient approval process for siting new liquified natural gas facilities . 
it would , for the first time , give an expedited procedure , hopefully in brownfield areas and high-unemployment areas , for expanding or building some new refineries . 
we have not built a new oil refinery in this country for the past 30 years . 
i could go on and on , mr. chairman , but simply let me say at the beginning of the debate that it is time for an energy policy for america . 
it is time for the house of representatives to say we want a strong economy based on the world 's best and most open free market for energy supplies , and also to put some incentives in for conservation . 
i strongly support the bill , and i look forward to the debate we are about to begin . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood ) xz4002960 , a member of the committee . 
mr. chairman , if the gentleman will yield , i would be happy to have a colloquy with the gentleman from georgia . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. chairman , as the gentleman well knows , the gentleman from illinois ( mr. shimkus ) xz4003730 offered an amendment in the committee that struck the participatory funding language from the conference report , but at that time , i assured the gentleman from georgia and the gentleman from mississippi and several other interested congressmen in the committee that when we go to conference with the senate , we will work out language that is fair and balanced and protects the rights of the incumbent local utilities and also the independent power producers to find a fair and balanced way in which to build and maintain the transmission system for our great nation 's electricity grid . 
if the gentleman will continue to yield , there will be a provision in the conference report that comes back when we report the conference out . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from missouri ( mr. blunt ) xz4000340 , the distinguished majority whip and a member of the committee . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from illinois ( mr. shimkus ) xz4003730 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from texas ( mr. gene green ) , one of nine democrats on the committee on energy and commerce who voted for this bill in committee . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from indiana ( mr. buyer ) xz4000560 . 
mr. chairman , i yield for the purpose of a unanimous consent request to the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. shays ) xz4003700 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minutes to the gentleman from florida ( mr. stearns ) xz4003880 , a distinguished subcommittee chairman . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from ohio ( mr. gillmor ) xz4001500 , another distinguished subcommittee chairman . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from michigan ( mr. upton ) xz4004140 , another distinguished subcommittee chairman . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
madam chairman , how much time does the gentleman from texas ( mr. hall ) xz4001650 have ? 
would the gentleman from texas ( mr. hall ) xz4001650 yield to me 1 minute ? 
madam chairman , i do not think it is a surprise that i rise in strong support of the barton manager 's amendment , since i am the barton who authored the amendment . 
but i just want to tell my good friend from massachusetts , whom i just listened to extremely closely as he told his tale of woe about his amendment being accepted in committee and not accepted in the manager 's amendment , we found out , as we went to implement it , that there were some things we did not understand about his amendment . 
now , i am sure the gentleman explained it clearly and concisely , and i was probably listening to one of my staffers and probably just did not hear his explanation , but it was actually retroactive in application . 
madam chairman , had we accepted it and put it in the manager 's amendment , there would have been an immediate outcry to implement some standards that were not yet implementable because it would have been retroactive . 
that is the primary reason it is not in the manager 's amendment . 
as we go to conference , we will continue to work with the distinguished gentleman , and we probably can find some way to get some part of it in in the conference . 
but that is the primary reason that particular amendment is not in the manager 's amendment . 
madam chairman , i yield myself 4 minutes . 
madam chairman , first , i rise in opposition to the dingell substitute . 
i do want the record to show that i supported at the committee on rules that it be made in order so we could have a full debate . 
the dingell substitute , if it were actually to be implemented into the bill and become law , would go far beyond anything currently being considered in the electricity sector . 
it would increase the fines already under the bill that go up to $ 1 million . 
the dingell substitute would take that to $ 5 million and in some cases $ 25 million . 
i will admit with the gentleman from michigan that the current fine is insignificant . 
i think it is $ 5 , 000 , and we need to increase that . 
so the bill takes it to the dingell substitute does not repeal puhca . 
the bill before us does repeal the public utility holding company act , but the bill before us keeps in order the reporting requirements under puhca so the sec would have the ability to maintain analysis of records and things like that of the companies that are subject to puhca . 
the dingell substitute would require retroactive refunds for market-based rates . 
it would go back into contracts that have already been executed and electricity is being consumed and money for that electricity has been paid , and for the first time create a retroactive refund . 
i think that is unwise and unnecessary . 
basically , i would say that the dingell substitute is well intentioned ; but in some cases it goes too far , and in some cases it is silent on the underlying bill . 
i would hope we would oppose it and keep the base text of the bill that is before us . 
madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
madam chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from new hampshire ( mr. bass ) xz4000190 , a member of the committee . 
madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume for the purpose of responding to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. eshoo ) xz4001240 and also to enter into a colloquy with the gentleman from new hampshire . 
first , let me simply say i understand the concern of the gentlewoman from california ( ms. eshoo ) xz4001240 about the situation in the power markets in california 4 to 5 years ago , and i know she feels more needs to be done . 
as we speak , there is litigation in process to have more done in that area . 
i will say on the record , hundreds of millions , if not billions , of dollars have been reclaimed , indictments have been brought , cases have gone to court and convictions obtained and people sent to jail for some of the transgressions the gentlewoman alluded to . 
while it is obvious that she feels more needs to be done , i think it does need to be stated on the record that quite a bit already has been done . 
madam chairman , i yield to the gentleman from new hampshire ( mr. bass ) xz4000190 . 
madam chairman , i agree with the gentleman from new hampshire . 
he and i have been working toward a solution to the contamination problem in new hampshire and across the nation . 
if he is not satisfied with the solution thus far , then i am not satisfied with it either , and i agree with him that more must and will be done . 
with the time that we will have to continue our already significant progress , i appreciate his commitment to reach out to other members with similar problems like his . 
committee staff and i stand ready to assist in every way and are fully committed to resolving the problem before the bill is presented to the president for enactment . 
i agree with that statement , also . 
the principles the gentleman has outlined should be part of the solution . 
i am confident that our work will adequately satisfy new hampshire and other contaminated states with problems similar to his state 's . 
madam chairman , i will just say that we are in opposition to the dingell substitute and would urge a `` no '' vote at the appropriate time . 
madam chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
madam chairman , i thank the gentleman from california for yielding me this time . 
first , let me say that i do oppose the markey amendment , but i want to say that the letter that was just read is totally legal . 
he has got every right if he wants to use something to try to raise money . 
he did not send me that letter . 
had he sent it to me , i would have had to reply in the negative that i could not make the contribution . 
but i recognize his right to do it in that manner . 
i oppose the markey amendment because i want to pay less for gasoline in texas . 
i would like to tell the members that my great state is self-sufficient in energy production and self-sufficient in oil , but it is not true . 
we are the largest producer of oil of the 50 states , but we are also the largest consumer . 
anwr has the potential to produce up to 2 million barrels a day for 30 years . 
and depending on one 's point of view , that is a lot or a little . 
if one wants to say it is a lot , it is more than we import from saudi arabia . 
if one wants to say it is a little , it is less than we use in a year in this country . 
but 2 million barrels a day for 30 years would lower prices for every american at the pump . 
i would point out that in terms of the environment , we have been producing successfully in prudhoe bay for almost 30 years without any harm to the environment , as the gentleman from alaska ( chairman young ) showed in those pictures when he was up here right before me . 
my district produces substantial amounts of oil and gas . 
we are producing 1.5 billion cubic feet of gas every day . 
that is one half of a trillion cubic feet a year . 
i can not tell the members how many hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil per day , but we are producing significant amounts of oil . 
we are producing it through the water table and supplies of many of the cities that i represent . 
we are producing it from underneath downtown fort worth , texas . 
and we are doing it in a safe and environmentally effective fashion . 
we could do that also in anwr . 
i strongly support the gentleman from california 's ( chairman pombo ) amendment that would allow it . 
i want to thank our colleagues in the other body for already agreeing in the reconciliation instructions , and i urge a `` no '' vote on the markey amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this amendment . 
you could classify this amendment as the darn-the-people amendment , and we are going to tell them what they want to do , not what they really want to do . 
we are going to tell them that they have to do something whether they want to or not . 
i would list as exhibit a the parking garage of the cannon office building or the rayburn office building or the longworth office building . 
there are cars and trucks on the market today that meet the standards that would have to be met if this amendment were to become law . 
i doubt that the congressional fleet meets that standard , because we , like everybody else , want some convenience and want some power under the hood . 
but if you want a car or truck that gets 35 or 36 miles a gallon or 40 miles a gallon or more , you can buy it today . 
how many of us do that ? 
i have had one vehicle that my son actually bought ; it was a nissan sentra . 
it probably got 35 miles to the gallon on the highway . 
when he got through with it and bought himself a little bit bigger , more fancy vehicle , he let me drive it , and i brought it up here , used it as my car for a while . 
my staff was so embarrassed : it did not have an air conditioner ; it was a standard transmission . 
i could hardly get them to get in the car . 
but i did have one vehicle in my life that would have met the standard that is in this bill . 
i represent an assembly plant in arlington , texas , a uaw plant . 
i doubt very many of those folks actually vote for me because i am a republican and most of them are not , but they have a right to make the chevrolet tahoes and the cadillac escalades , because a lot of americans want to drive that vehicle . 
i am not going to go down and tell them , you can not make that vehicle because it does not meet these fuel-efficiency standards . 
let the market decide . 
if america wants more fuel-efficient vehicles , they are available in the marketplace today . 
we do not need a government fiat telling them that that is the only vehicle that they can purchase . 
vote against this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in mild opposition to the johnson amendment . 
mr. chairman , i said mild opposition because it is exactly what it is . 
i chair the committee of jurisdiction that would have this amendment , and we have been working with the congresswoman from connecticut to try to perfect her amendment . 
she has been very gracious to come up to me on the floor , and then her staff and committee staff have been working , and we really thought that earlier in the week or late last week we had an amendment that everybody could agree to . 
for various reasons , that was not agreed to , so we have the situation today . 
at the close of this debate , the gentleman from michigan ( mr. rogers ) xz4003421 , a member of the committee of jurisdiction , is going to offer a perfecting amendment to the johnson amendment . 
i am going to support that at the appropriate time . 
we support the goal of the johnson amendment . 
she is trying to get consumers fair and accurate information when they go into a showroom or are thinking about purchasing a new vehicle . 
she states , and i agree , that the consumer has a right to know what the fuel economy is of that particular vehicle ; and under current law , the way the tests are conducted , there is some discrepancy , as she has pointed out in her statement in support of her amendment . 
having said that , there are those that have reviewed her amendment and think that it could be a backdoor approach to cafe standard increases . 
we just had the debate on the boehlert-markey amendment . 
i voted in the negative on that , and i think when that rollcall is called , the majority of the house is going to be in the negative . 
so i know that is not the intent of the gentlewoman 's amendment , but there are some that think it could be . 
we are going to oppose this amendment and support the gentleman from michigan 's ( mr. rogers ) xz4003421 amendment in the nature of a substitute or amendment to the johnson amendment . 
i think at the end of the day , the house is going to work its will , and the gentlewoman from connecticut ( mrs. johnson ) xz4002051 is going to be happy and the gentleman from michigan ( mr. rogers ) xz4003421 is going to be happy and the consumers of america are going to be happy when they go into showrooms a year or two from now and see these new window labels that show what the fuel economy is . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , parliamentary inquiry , since the rogers amendment , which is next in line , amends , or perfects , the johnson amendment , does the gentleman from michigan ( mr. rogers ) xz4003421 have to seek recognition to offer his amendment before the close of debate on the gentlewoman from connecticut 's ( mrs. johnson ) xz4002051 amendment , or does he wait until her debate concludes and then offers his amendment ? 
mr. chairman , could i ask a parliamentary inquiry . 
before we go to the gentleman from michigan , when it comes time to vote , are we going to vote on the rogers amendment to the johnson amendment , and then if it is amended , we will vote on the johnson amendment ; is that correct ? 
there will be two votes , rogers to amend johnson and then johnson , either amended or unamended , depending on how the rogers amendment fairs ? 
mr. chairman , i yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from michigan ( mr. upton ) xz4004140 , the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee on telecommunications and the internet of the committee on energy and commerce . 
mr. chairman , i claim the time in opposition . 
the acting chairman ( mr. simpson ) xz4003760 . 
the chair recognizes the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 for 15 minutes . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
on the johnson amendment immediately prior , i was in mild opposition . 
on this amendment , i want to be recorded in strong opposition . 
here is the amendment . 
it is 124 pages . 
it may be great . 
i do not believe it is , but i have to stipulate it is possible . 
there has been no hearing on this , no markup on this . 
most of the amendments before the body today , there may be a paragraph , a page , most of them are amendments that were at least debated in one of the committees of jurisdiction . 
this is a 124-page amendment which , i guess , members could say is a substitute for the entire bill . 
there are 50 pages of efficient standards in this amendment . 
then there is the dingell electricity substitute , which we have already had a debate on earlier today , and then at the end there are another 30 pages of tax credits . 
to top it off , we have some sort of a scheme to fix the price of oil . 
what is not in this amendment is anything that would increase production , anything that addresses clean coal technology , i believe , or hydrogen research or any of those things . 
again , i will stipulate this is probably a well-intentioned amendment . 
it is certainly lengthily drafted , but i can not conceive at this stage of the game after all of the hearings and the markup and the amendments we have already had in this congress and the debate that went on in the prior congress , in the conference report that this house voted on two times , that the house would accept this amendment . 
with all due respect to the authors , i would urge a strong `` no '' vote on this on a bipartisan basis because i do not think this amendment is right for inclusion or substitution for the underlying bill . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from louisiana ( mr. mccrery ) xz4002610 , a member of the committee on ways and means that has jurisdiction on tax issues . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i would ask to engage in a dialogue with one of the authors of the amendment , if they wish to do so . 
i am not being facetious about this . 
i want to let the gentleman from new york know right up front . 
i have spent the last 10 minutes actually trying to look at the amendment to try to get a sense of it . 
it appears to me that most of it is the dingell electricity substitute . 
would the gentleman from new york agree with that ? 
i yield to the gentleman from new york . 
in the beginning , he has some efficiency standards . 
he goes through and sets some specific standards on specific appliances , dishwashers and things like this . 
but on page 21 , there is something beginning on line 16 that i just do not understand and i just want to see . 
the gentleman from new york may not understand it either , because he may not have had much advance work in drafting this . 
the heading is administration , penalties , enforcement and preemption . 
it says , `` section 345 of the energy policy and conservation act , 42 u.s. code 6316 , is amended by adding at the end the following. '' it just goes down and says if a state wants to set up a specific standard , that is fine , and that state standard will not be preempted until the federal standards established under this bill take effect on january 1 , 2010 . 
i understand that . 
he is saying the states can set a standard , but once the standards in the bill kick in on january 1 , 2010 , the federal standard preempts . 
that is a policy debate ; we can argue that back and forth . 
the next section , i do not understand , subparagraph 3 , line 16 : `` if the california energy commission adopts , not later than march 31 , 2005 , a regulation concerning the energy efficiency or energy effective after , the standards established under section 342 ( a ) ( 9 ) take effect on january 1 , 2010. '' what does that mean ? 
while the gentleman is trying to get me an answer , this is the kind of thing that if we had this in regular order in a markup , there would be counsel at the desk and members of the committee of jurisdiction would ask the counsel to explain it ; and if it is a drafting error , then that could be corrected . 
if it is not a drafting error , then at least the members know . 
i am assuming that is a drafting error , but it may not be . 
then right underneath that , we are talking about administration , penalties , enforcement and preemption on efficiency standard for appliances . 
after that paragraph i just read , then you go back and just out of the blue , it says , `` in determining whether to defer such acquisition , the secretary shall use market-based practices when deciding to acquire petroleum for the strategic petroleum reserve. '' again , i am going to assume that this was a cut-and-paste effort and something got left out and that should be in another place . 
am i correct or incorrect on that ? 
i sincerely respect the intent of the authors of the amendment . 
i am just trying to point out that even on a cursory examination , there are things that were just kind of hastily put together . 
they have not been vetted . 
the underlying bill has been through countless hearings . 
the energy and commerce markup took 3 1/2 days . 
the base text is the conference report from the last congress that was extensively reviewed both inside and out of the conference . 
at this stage of the game , to adopt this , even as well intentioned as it is , would not put the congress in the best light . 
so i really would hope that we would vote it down . 
i do want to say one thing about the gentleman from michigan 's amendment on great lakes drilling . 
he offered his amendment in committee . 
we had a fair debate on it . 
it was rejected . 
i do not remember the vote . 
it was a fairly close vote , but it was rejected . 
then we took a rogers of michigan amendment as a substitute that gives the states the right to ban drilling if they wish . 
it is my understanding , and i could be incorrect about this , that michigan wishes to ban drilling in the great lakes and ohio perhaps does not . 
i did not learn whether new york wanted to or did not want to . 
i think that canada does allow it . 
but the base bill allows a state the right to ban drilling on their portion of jurisdiction of the great lakes if they so wish . 
i yield to the gentleman from michigan . 
if i could reclaim my time , the gentleman from michigan is a valued member of the committee and has several amendments that were accepted , that are in the bill . 
i hope he is at least in a quandary about maybe voting for the bill at some point in time , although he has not yet done so . 
but as he just pointed out on the underlying bill , we do encourage states , i think the language is , encourages the states to have such a ban , but we do not have the federal preemptive ban that the gentleman from michigan wanted . 
mr. chairman , in summary , i oppose this amendment . 
i think we have pointed out a number of flaws in it . 
i would hope at the appropriate time the body would vote it down . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i rise to qualify in opposition . 
and i say `` qualify '' because when i looked at the amendment several days ago , it appeared to me to be a reasonable amendment . 
since the gentlewoman was born in texas , it gave me another reason to say yes . 
and since she is a member of the committee on rules and every now and then i will need a vote from the minority on the committee on rules , there was another reason . 
so we had lots of reasons to say yes , and so we did say yes . 
then we found out that the gentleman from alaska ( mr. young ) xz4004401 , the chairman of committee on transportation and infrastructure , had some concerns about it , and the general services administration had some concerns about it . 
and the concern is that these intermittent escalators sometimes cause a safety problem because they start and stop too soon and they apparently break down more frequently than continuous-operation escalators . 
so here is my proposal to the gentlewoman : i am willing to accept it with the understanding that we are going to work with the general services administration and the gentleman from alaska ( chairman young ) to see if there is a meeting of the minds between now and conference . 
we will go into the base bill . 
it will be a house position when we go to conference . 
but if for some reason we can not satisfy these safety concerns , since i am probably going to be the chairman of the conference , i would reserve the right to drop it in conference after consultation with the gentlewoman if we can not work out some of these concerns . 
but for tonight we would take it . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , with that reservation , the majority accepts the gentlewoman 's amendment and urges a mild `` yes '' vote . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding to me . 
and i would simply say that the gentleman from minnesota ( mr. oberstar ) xz4002990 , the ranking member on the committee on transportation and infrastructure , has offered an amendment that would authorize $ 20 million for the administrator of general services administration to proceed with the sun wall design project , and the majority is prepared to accept it and work with the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 and the gentleman from minnesota ( mr. oberstar ) xz4002990 to maintain it in conference with the senate . 
i urge a `` yes '' vote . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the right to object , and i will not object . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the amendment , and i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
it may seem odd that i would ask the house to rise to give the gentleman the right to offer an amendment that i am going to oppose , but i think it is worthy of debate . 
we had a debate in the committee on energy and commerce on this amendment , and i glanced at it , and it appears to be the identical amendment . 
is it the identical amendment from the committee on energy and commerce ? 
i yield to the gentleman from california . 
it looked to me like it was . 
we had a good debate on it there and it was rejected , and i honestly hope that the house does the same . 
mr. chairman , i want to read a part of the amendment . 
it says under section 151 , `` presidential actions . 
for purposes of reducing waste of oil and decreasing demand for foreign oil , not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this act , appropriate federal departments and agencies identified by the president shall propose voluntary , regulatory , and other actions , '' other actions , `` sufficient to reduce the demand for oil in the united states by at least 1 million barrels per day from projected demand for oil in 2013. '' now , let us go through that . 
the gentleman is stating that we are wasting oil . 
i guess when i hop in my pickup truck to go to the store to get some milk , then i am wasting gasoline . 
but my wife does not think i am wasting it , my children or stepchildren do not think i am wasting it when they get to drink the milk that i go get , but i guess maybe we are . 
so i do not know how we would identify this waste , but i assume there would be some federal commission that could identify the waste of oil . 
of course , it talks about decreasing the demand for foreign oil . 
well , oil is oil . 
we do get about 14 million barrels a day from overseas , and god bless us that we do . 
our economy would come to a halt if we did not . 
so i am not sure how we would work on that . 
it talks about being voluntary , regulatory , but then it says `` other actions. '' `` other '' could be mandatory . 
`` other '' could be whatever the president of the united states says it is . 
but the gentleman from california goes on to say , in subsection b , `` if the president determines that the departments and agencies lack the authority or funding to implement the actions proposed , '' in the section i just read , `` then the president should come to the congress and request the necessary authority. '' now , here we have an economy that in the last year in the united states , demand for energy has gone up , not down . 
the price of gasoline in nominal dollars has doubled in the last year . 
demand has gone up 2 percent . 
we have doubled the price and demand has gone up . 
but yet , somehow , the gentleman from california ( mr. waxman ) xz4004250 thinks if we accept this amendment , that we are going to be able to wave some magic wand at the presidential level , and maybe at the congressional level , and reduce demand for oil by 1 million barrels . 
we are only producing around 7 or 8 million barrels a day domestically , but somehow , just by having a group hug in the federal agencies , we are going to find a way to reduce demand by 1 million barrels . 
i do not think it is going to work that way . 
we can emote all we want , but we have a growing economy , a growing population , and we are probably going to continue to need more oil , not less . 
so the way to do it is to find ways to produce more and to find real-world ways to consume less and get more bang for the buck . 
this amendment does not get us there , with all due respect . 
i hope we would oppose it . 
i strongly support the gentleman 's right to offer it , but i just as strongly support my right to oppose it , and i hope at the appropriate time the house will vote `` no '' on the waxman amendment . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. chairman , i am supportive , but my understanding is that the gentleman from arizona is going to be nonsupportive . 
hopefully , the gentleman from hawaii and i , together , can overcome him . 
i do support the gentleman 's amendment at the appropriate time . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. chairman , i support the amendment , and i strongly encourage the majority to support it , and we will work with the gentleman in conference to maintain it if he will promise to work with his hawaiian senators to get them to do that also . 
i am in support of the abercrombie amendment and hope that the house accepts it . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds of my minute and a half , which was mr. flake 's minute and a half , to the gentleman from arizona ( mr. flake ) xz4001340 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to my good friend , the gentleman from new mexico ( mr. pearce ) xz4003130 . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i just want to say that we are supporting all forms of energy . 
we accepted amendments in the committee for animal methane , livestock methane . 
this is a pilot program . 
it is a nominal amount of dollars . 
i honestly do not know whether sugar cane will be economical to turn into ethanol , but it is well worth the 3-year pilot program to see if it is . 
i actually hope that it is . 
i would want it to be successful . 
but this is a very , very small , nominal program . 
and i would also point out there are not many states that can grow sugar cane . 
hawaii would be one . 
i guess florida would be one . 
perhaps louisiana . 
maybe even texas , although i do not think we have . 
so i would hope we would support the abercrombie amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in respectful opposition . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself 1 minute . 
mr. chairman , i wish i could find a way to say `` yes. '' unfortunately , i can not . 
i think the underlying bill which has an authorization to increase the crude strategic petroleum reserve and build it out to a billion barrels and also try to build some new refineries in this country , if we take those two things together , we will have the same effect as the gentlewoman 's intent , which is to create the ability , if we ever need the spr , to move the large amounts more quickly and to refine them more quickly and thus disrupt the american economy as little as possible . 
i continue to oppose the gentlewoman 's amendment . 
i urge a `` no '' vote . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of the conaway amendment . 
i think it adds to the bill . 
it is a study to ask the department of energy and the department of labor to see what the supply of labor is in the oil field industry , both in the short term and the long term . 
you hear stories that all the landmen have retired and the geophysicists have retired , and you even hear some stories that we do not have the roughnecks to go out and operate the rigs . 
there is a big natural gas plague going on in texas right now . 
there is some oil production drilling going on . 
so i think this is a useful element , and i hope we would support it . 
i thank the gentleman from midland , texas ( mr. conaway ) xz4006550 , for offering it . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the amendment . 
mr. chairman , we have not built a new refinery in the united states since 1976 . 
now , we have expanded some existing refineries , but we have closed dozens , if not hundreds , of small refineries . 
we are importing refined product because we do not have the ability to meet our needs for refined petroleum products with our existing refinery base . 
our refineries are operating at 95 percent capacity every day . 
now , this amendment that the gentlewoman from california wants to strike would say that we are going to go out and do an inventory of existing refinery sites that have been closed or manufacturing sites that have been closed where there is high unemployment , high unemployment . 
so you have to have two things . 
you have to have an existing refinery site or a manufacturing site that is no longer in use , and you have to have very high unemployment . 
we think there are around 100 of those sites . 
i think the exact number is 96 ; and under this part of the bill , if a community wants to solicit a refinery , we set up an expedited procedure that is led by the department of energy where you can go and request all the number of permits . 
we do not waive any permit . 
we do not eliminate any permit . 
we are not mandating that anybody has to seek one of these , but i think it would be a positive to build 5 , 6 , 7 million barrels of new refinery capacity in this country using state-of-the-art technology so that we can meet 100 percent of our refined product needs , take some load off the existing refinery base , and , yes , create some jobs in america . 
i think that would be a good thing , not a bad thing . 
so i strongly oppose this amendment and would encourage all the other members to oppose the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from texas ( mr. gene green ) . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of the time . 
again , i oppose the solis amendment . 
i was at the white house earlier this week and was briefing the president on the energy bill that came out of the various committees ; and when i mentioned this particular element , which i consider to be an important element of the bill , something that we did not have in last year 's bill , his initial , off-the-cuff reaction was , a , it was very good ; and , b , could we add abandoned military bases . 
obviously , it is not in order to change the amendment on the floor , but when we go to conference , if the president decides that the official position of the white house is to support the amendment plus add abandoned military bases , we will have a debate in the conference and hopefully add that . 
but the bottom line on this is we need more refinery capacity . 
we need it in this country . 
why not put it at old refinery sites or old manufacturing sites where they have high unemployment and we can create some good jobs for america , and oh , yes , by the way , most of these jobs will be union jobs . 
i would urge a `` no '' vote on the solis amendment . 
let us vote for jobs in america . 
mr. chairman , i yield back my time . 
parliamentary inquiry , mr. chairman . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the amendment . 
the udall amendment would strike from the energy bill all funding for research and development into environmentally sensitive uranium mining and reclamation technologies . 
uranium mining is necessary for the production of enriched uranium that is necessary to create nuclear fuel used in nuclear power plants . 
the bill before us today paves the way for an expansion of the domestic nuclear industry , and we need to authorize funding to develop more environmentally sensitive uranium technologies to feed the growing demand for nuclear power . 
section 631 of the bill creates a uranium mining research and development program to improve uranium mining technologies . 
this important funding supports advanced uranium mining technologies that can allow mining operations to be conducted with greater environmental sensitivity . 
section 631 would also authorize funds for the development of new environmental cleanup technologies for the remediation of closed uranium mines . 
nuclear power is here to stay , and we need to support a strong domestic uranium industry . 
section 631 provides funding for environmentally sensible uranium mining to support a growing nuclear industry . 
with respect to the gentleman from new mexico 's ( mr. udall ) xz4004131 specific concerns for uranium mining issues in his home state , i would like to point out the provision specifically excludes new mexico from receiving any funding under this provision . 
so i am not sure exactly what his objection could be at this point , at least with respect to his home state . 
i would encourage my colleagues to vote against the udall amendment . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , it is only a page amendment , section 631 . 
it authorizes $ 10 million each year for 2006 , 2007 , 2008 . 
it would create cooperative cost-sharing agreements between the department of energy and the domestic uranium producers , and these cost-sharing agreements would be competitively selected demonstration projects . 
so it is a 3-year $ 10 million per-year , openly competed demonstration program to try to find new ways to improve mining technologies with the appropriate environmental restoration technologies . 
but the part that i want to read into the record is , and i have great respect for the congressional research service , but it very plainly states in section c of section 631 , and i am going to read this verbatim : `` limitation . 
no activities funded under this section may be carried out in the state of new mexico. '' that is the plain language of the section : `` no activities funded under this section may be carried out in the state of new mexico. '' now , the gentleman from new mexico has every right to offer an amendment to strip the section if he has some concerns generically about its impact nationally ; but if he has any concern about this program being used in his home state , it is not going to happen , because it very clearly states in this amendment , this section c of the section 631 , it can not happen . 
i yield to the gentleman from new mexico . 
mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , with all due respect , this bill came out of my committee . 
i mean , read it . 
would i put something in there or approve something , or is there some secret language , some code word that the gentleman and i , either one , do not know ? 
`` no activities funded under this section may be carried out in the state of new mexico. '' boom . 
now , i am not saying the congressional research service did not tell the gentleman what he read in the record . 
the gentleman is an honest man , but this is the bill . 
i mean , the gentleman understands that . 
sure . 
mr. chairman , i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from texas ( mr. hall ) xz4001650 , to close . 
mr. chairman , i claim the time in opposition , although i am actually supportive of the amendment , but i had to apparently say i was opposed to get the time , and i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , this is a good amendment . 
it adds to the bill . 
the gentleman from arizona ( mr. shadegg ) xz4003680 offered a similar amendment in markup that was adopted . 
this goes further and establishes the program at the epa . 
the only concern , well , not concern , but i need to let the distinguished gentleman from tennessee know that this authorizes the program , it does not appropriate the funds , and it would be subject to appropriations ; but certainly , authorizing the program so that we can go to the committee on appropriations and request funding . 
there is no question , it is without question that hybrid technology extends our available full fuel resources and that it is a coming thing , and i want to thank the gentleman from tennessee for offering this amendment , and i do strongly support it . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , reserving the right to object , and i will not object , mr. chairman , simply to say that the gentleman has cleared this with the majority . 
it would change the numerical number of cities that would be eligible , but it would not change the total funding , and this is an acceptable change , and we are very willing to accept it . 
mr. chairman , i withdraw my reservation of objection . 
mr. chairman , if the gentlewoman will yield , it is in texas . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , there are so many ways to oppose this particular amendment that i am at a little bit of a loss as to which way to start in opposition , but i think i will start first on the procedural opposition . 
this is basically the same vote and the same amendment that the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 had a vote on yesterday on a point of order before consideration of the rule . 
that was defeated overwhelmingly , in the neighborhood of 231-188 or something like that . 
to give her credit , she has come back and she and her allies have found a way to use the rules to come up and get a second bite of the apple . 
but my first line of opposition is that if you voted against it yesterday , you ought to vote against it today . 
secondly , i want to talk about the concept that is embodied in the capps amendment , that somehow this is an unfunded mandate . 
what she is seeking to strike is a provision in the underlying bill which was in the bill last year that says you can not de facto go in and in an existing lawsuit state that mtbe , because it is mtbe , or also ethanol , is defective because of its chemical composition . 
you have to prove that it is defective , not just say that , because it is what it is . 
it is similar to saying this piece of wood that this table is made of is defective because it is wood . 
that is a very limited safe harbor provision . 
the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 would strike that . 
cbo last year looked at this language and said there is no unfunded mandate . 
in fact , several years ago in the medical malpractice legislation where we capped damages , capped awards , cbo said that is not an unfunded mandate . 
but this year the cbo analysts in question looked at it and said , while the evidence was difficult to ascertain , it could be construed as an unfunded mandate . 
the lawsuits that have been filed and could be filed are going to be filed on a wide range of issues . 
any particular court and any particular jury may find in this case or that case and we are not precluding that , but to somehow say that now because if the safe harbor provision were to become law that you would actually have to prove mtbe was defective , that somehow that is an unfunded mandate to me is just beyond the pale . 
i have got several court cases that have already been considered on the defective product situation with mtbe , and i would like to read those right now . 
in a new jersey case , a court ruled that mtbe was an oxygenate that congress contemplated would be used frequently . 
therefore , the court found : `` because congress required that gasoline include an oxygenate and specifically designated that mtbe would be one of the most common and effective oxygenates , this court concludes that gasoline containing mtbe can not be deemed a defective product. '' a california court , the state the gentlewoman hails from : `` federal law permits the use of mtbe , and the supremacy clause precludes state tort liability from attaching based on the mere use of this allowed option. '' the court reasoned that : `` permitting plaintiffs to pursue their common law claims conflicts with the reformulated gasoline and oxygenated fuels provisions of the clean air act and the regulatory actions taken under it. '' we have other court cases that we can put into the record . 
we have got several lines of opposition here . 
the first line is that we have already had the vote . 
we have the second line that this is not an unfunded mandate because we are not precluding what states can or can not do in the future . 
and under current law , the cleanup costs are borne 96 percent by the parties , not borne by the states . 
you have to have an orphaned site before the state would even come into it . 
so we think the allegation that it is unfunded is spurious on the measure . 
and , lastly , on the item of whether mtbe is defective as a product just because it is mtbe , it has clearly been ruled in several cases , and common sense would dictate , that something that is made properly and used properly and actually cleans up the air , there is no way that can be a defective product . 
i am giving members three lines of reasoning to vote against the capps amendment , and i would hope that when the vote comes that we keep the language in the bill and we are able to go to conference with the senate and continue to work to find a compromise if we need to do more to expedite the cleanup in those states that have mtbe contamination . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from texas ( mr. gene green ) . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
briefly , before i yield time to the gentleman from new hampshire ( mr. bass ) xz4000190 , just to make one major point , we were not aware that this amendment might come up today . 
we were not even told it could until we walked on the floor and saw the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 . 
that is point number one . 
point number two , when we huddled at the leadership level to decide what to do about this , i was given several parliamentary options to try to defeat any kind of an effort to have a substantive debate , and i chose not to do that . 
i made the decision that if the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 and her allies were smart enough to figure out a way to use the house rules to get her vote up , she ought to be given that chance to do it . 
and i had several opportunities to gimmick the rules up and do complicated parliamentary procedure that would have obfuscated the issue . 
so i do not want to come onto this floor and be told that somehow i have tried to be unfair or prevent an honest debate . 
i will be honest , i would rather not have this debate right now . 
but we are going to have it , and let us have a substantive debate . 
i am fine on that . 
the second point i want to make is , i am not going to disparage what the gentleman from california ( mr. waxman ) xz4004250 just said , but when we were debating these amendments back in the early 1990s , we had numerous instances where he went on record saying that mbte was something that should be included as an oxygenate . 
he even offered an amendment in committee to increase the oxygenate requirement to 3 percent . 
if i am correct , then i will let him look at the statements and tell me that they are incorrect . 
i am for a fair and open debate . 
i yield to the gentleman from california . 
mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i want to read a quote and have the gentleman tell me whether he thinks he said this or not . 
i quote from the gentleman from california ( mr. waxman ) xz4004250 : `` this level of oxygenation , required in the clean air act amendments , is high enough to achieve most of the benefits of oxygenated fuels but low enough to allow several different oxygenates to compete for market share . 
the leading oxygenates are ethanol and ethers made of ethanol , etbe ; or methanol , mbte. '' that is attributed to the gentleman as a direct quote . 
is that correct ? 
mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i am not saying that he stipulated that mbte had to be used . 
i am stipulating that he knew it could be used . 
and he is entitled to change his mind , change his position . 
it is a free country . 
but at one time he thought that mbte could help clean up the air . 
that is all i am saying . 
mr. chairman , i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from new hampshire ( mr. bass ) xz4000190 . 
first , i yield for a unanimous consent request to the gentleman from california ( mr. doolittle ) xz4001130 . 
mr. chairman , to close the debate , i yield the remaining 30 seconds to the gentleman from michigan ( mr. upton ) xz4004140 . 
mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to speak out of order and engage in a colloquy with the chairman of the committee on agriculture . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for raising these concerns and agree with the gentleman that market transparency is an absolute need for an affordable energy supply and that the protection of proprietary data is a must for the efficient and effective use of u.s. futures markets . 
regulation of united states futures exchanges is certainly within the jurisdiction of the cftc . 
i give the gentleman my assurances i will work with him on language that reflects the commodity futures trading corporation 's jurisdiction in its vital role in market transparency . 
mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to speak out of order to engage in a colloquy with the gentlewoman from ohio ( ms. pryce ) xz4003270 . 
the gentlewoman is correct . 
the gentlewoman is once again correct . 
the gentlewoman is correct , for the third time in a row . 
we always thank the gentlewoman for her inquiries . 
mr. chairman , i just want to add my support for the amendment . 
i think it helps the bill . 
i would encourage my friend from washington , as he once again gets another amendment in the bill , to consider voting for final passage . 
he is going to have more stuff in the bill than i am . 
so at some point in time the weight of the evidence is that he should be supportive of the bill . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i oppose this amendment not because i oppose environmental justice , but because i do not think this amendment is necessary . 
the amendment does not codify existing powers in the federal government . 
it would change the way that they are currently operating . 
the current environmental justice programs are in no danger of being repealed . 
the subject of the amendment , executive order 12898 , is already in effect and requires each federal agency to make achieving environmental justice part of its mission by identifying and addressing disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental affects of its programs , policies and activities on minority populations and low-income populations . 
in my opinion , this amendment is a step backward in allowing minority and low-income communities the opportunity for individual choice and economic freedom in creating jobs and encouraging development in these low-income areas that are in such desperate need of revitalization and economic growth . 
more environmental restrictions and quotas , that would result from this amendment , will only continue the plight of these economically disadvantaged communities by discouraging further development . 
epa already has several offices that have responsibility for overseeing and instituting environmental justice programs , including two specific ones , the office of environmental justice and a national advisory committee that gives national focus to environmental justice concerns in all environmental protection programs at the epa . 
so i know it is a well-intentioned amendment , but it is not necessary because we have existing executive orders . 
the agencies are implementing it . 
and i think this would actually do more harm than good . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california ( mr. cunningham . ) mr. chairman , i will yield 1 of my 2 minutes to the gentleman if he wants to close on the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i urge a `` no '' vote , and i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the amendment . 
i yield to the gentleman from tennessee . 
mr. chairman , i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from california ( mr. calvert ) xz4000570 for purposes of a colloquy . 
if the gentleman will yield , mr. chairman , i tell the distinguished gentleman from california , my good friend , that we can discuss this further at conference and i look forward to that . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from nebraska ( mr. terry ) xz4004000 . 
mr. chairman , i commend the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey ) xz4002530 on his visual . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from illinois ( mr. shimkus ) xz4003730 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from houston , texas ( mr. gene green ) . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murphy ) xz4002850 . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the castle-markey amendment , and i wanted this behind me . 
i do not oppose this at all except that the color is burnt orange , which is the university of texas , and this is aggie muster day , april 21 , when sam houston and his texans routed the mexicans at the battle of san jacinto and won independence for my great state . 
so this is a sacred day in aggie history , and that is the only thing i object to . 
when i look at this , what i see is energy for america , i see security for america , and i also see safety . 
admittedly , it is a big boat and it looks threatening , i will grant that ; but we already have existing provisions in law to make sure that these terminals that are already in existence are as safe it is possible to be . 
i am not aware of any major accident , and i would stand corrected if the gentleman from delaware ( mr. castle ) xz4000700 or the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey ) xz4002530 says there has been , but i am not aware of that . 
this particular section of the bill that is before us simply says that we are going to need more lng facilities , which is shorthand for liquefied natural gas ; and we have tried to craft in the guarantee that the state has a stronger role , not a weaker role . 
we do not preempt any state permit . 
if the state of massachusetts or delaware or california or any other coastal state , if through their own permitting process they make the decision that the terminal should not be built , it will not be built . 
what this provision does is , if a state agency has not made a decision , has refused to make a decision , and one of the parties goes into the district court here in washington , d.c. , and asks that a decision be made , that will expedite the decision-making process . 
for the first time , if this provision of the bill were to become law , we would give the states a guarantee to actually go in and inspect these facilities under federal law , not under state law , but under federal law . 
they do not have that right now . 
i have told the gentleman from delaware , and i will tell the gentleman from massachusetts , if we defeat this amendment and we go to conference with the existing language and we need to in some way strengthen the states ' rights end of this provision , i am going to be for that . 
i come from a coastal state . 
i come from a coastal state . 
i want the safest possible . 
that is why we have the increased state guarantee in the bill , because i insisted upon it ; but we can not stick our heads in the sand and say we do not need more lng facilities . 
we need more energy for america . 
i wish we could produce it within our shores , but it does not look like that is going to be possible . 
we are going to have to go offshore . 
we have about 30 pending permits for lng facilities right now under consideration , and what this language does in the bill is give an expedited provision that the federal energy regulatory commission is the lead agency to expedite the federal part of it . 
i believe this actually strengthens the state role . 
so i would respectfully ask for a `` no '' vote on the castle-markey amendment , and then what we need to work on in the conference we will work on . 
madam chairman , i rise in opposition to the amendment offered by the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 . 
basically , this guts the whole bill . 
it substitutes a power act amendment for the entire bill . 
it , frankly , goes far beyond anything being considered currently in the electricity debate , particularly with respect to utility security , ferc rate-making authority , reporting requirements , and industry accounting . 
in addition , this amendment would fundamentally rewrite portions of the natural gas act , something that is clearly outside the scope of this debate . 
i point out that the amendment is opposed by the edison electric institute , the american public power association , and the national rural electric cooperative association . 
those are the co-ops . 
it does not help site new transmission that is needed to ensure reliability and provide adequate supplies of affordable electricity to consumers . 
it does not repeal puhca , which facilitates the construction of new construction and promotes badly needed investment in the electric utility industry . 
it does not amend purpa to reform the contract process and save constituents money , and it does not promote certainty of contract that is necessary to promote investment and better market operation by putting all market-based contracts at risk . 
it does not provide ferc the flexibility needed to regulate markets that develop in the future by issuing prescriptive rules , procedures , and penalties . 
what the amendment does do , unfortunately , is create market uncertainty , it imposes excessive penalties , and it institutes almost continuous investigation of all utilities with market-based rates , not only burdening utilities , but also burdening ferc and stretching its resources . 
madam chairman , i hope that the congress will join me and other like-minded colleagues in opposing this amendment . 
i thank the gentleman for yielding . 
madam chairman , over the past several months , the gentleman from texas and i have worked toward a fair and equitable solution to the problem of contamination caused by mtbe getting into our groundwater and other waters . 
i appreciate all his efforts and the faith he has placed in me on this issue which is so critical to new hampshire , a state that has been affected significantly and , obviously , other affected states . 
like him , i had hoped that we would be able to have our solution ready for today 's house consideration of the energy policy act . 
however , i am not satisfied that what we have agreed upon in principle is sufficient to the problem or comprehensive enough to have my support , and i would rather not rush it simply for the sake of being done today . 
does the gentleman agree that spending additional time will result in an improved product that will provide a mechanism to ensure that our drinking water is clean and safe today and into the future ? 
i thank the gentleman for those comments . 
does the gentleman also agree that the principles we have established so far , including a fair funding system , strict cleanup standard and an appropriate amount of time for contamination discovery will be safeguarded in the final product unless equivalent mechanisms can be developed ? 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding time to me . 
as we can tell , this is the kind of issue that we could spend the next 10 years debating . 
i want to solve the problem . 
the problem is not going to be solved by filing lawsuits , by scoring political points , by paying huge legal fees to the trial bar , waiting year after year after year while constituents of all of us wait for some kind of remediation . 
sure , claims have been filed , almost 100 of them , i understand . 
there has not been a single judgment to date . 
there have been some settlements , but there has not been a single judgment rendered . 
i do not call that a safe way to procure that our constituents get their water cleaned up . 
last year cbo said that this was not an unfunded mandate . 
this year another analysis says it is an unfunded mandate . 
as one who served on the committee on the budget and was here in 1995 , i would suggest that this would be classified , if one is an accountant , as a contingent unfunded liability or a hypothetical unfunded liability . 
but it will not be that way in the end because there are two choices that we face here today : an easy choice , which is to vote `` yes '' and to have the status quo and to go forward as we have in the past ; or the hard vote is to really solve the problem . 
having voted to strip mbte provisions from this bill last year , i am voting the other way this year , and i am proud of it , and i will tell the members why . 
i have established it with the chairman , a task force that is going to work between now and conference time on a plan that will structure a remediation program that will clean up the water , not 10 years from now or 20 years from now , not unfairly in this community and not in that community and not in this state or that state , but across the whole country . 
my constituents deserve a workout for this problem , and we as policymakers have an obligation to work together in a bipartisan fashion in our conference to come up with a solution . 
it is my hope that this solution will include the creation of a fund that will include participation by all the potentially responsible parties , a way to settle claims in a quick and fair fashion that reduces the overall cost . 
i do not want to see communities like south tahoe city suing their own lawyers to try to get the money back so that they can actually perform the remediation that they had planned to do and might have been able to do if it had been settled in such a fashion so that they did not have to deal with other costs . 
i want to see a fund created that will really resolve this issue . 
please allow this bill to go forward to conference , and when we come back with a conference product , it will be a product that my constituents who have been hurt by mbte contamination will see their wells cleaned up , will see adequate compensation to redress their issues ; and we will have the problem resolved , and we will end this endless fight that we could have if we do nothing . 
i urge opposition to the pending amendment . 
madam speaker , i thank the gentlewoman and commend her for organizing this hour that we can talk about this energy bill , but we all hope we not only hope can pass on this floor but can actually in this congress become law because we have waited too long . 
the american people have waited too long to have an energy policy that is a little bit more than one day at a time . 
so i do , again , commend the gentlewoman . 
anwr has been an issue in this congress and much of the united states for years and years and years . 
when i got elected to congress in 2002 , anwr was very much on my mind because one of the first issues we talked about was an energy bill . 
i had an opportunity to go up and see that much talked about , much described , very valuable piece of real estate in august of 2003 with a few of my congressional colleagues . 
i have in front of me tonight a map that puts alaska in relative size to the lower 48 states in proper perspective . 
anwr is in this region . 
the area we are actually talking about exploring is represented by that green dot , just 2 , 000 acres . 
2 , 000 acres is roughly the size of the st . 
louis airport that most of us and many americans have landed in . 
i have also heard that in relative size it is about like dulles , which we are all very familiar with back here in the washington , d.c. , area . 
it is about the same size as the land dedicated to the dulles airport as compared to the entire state of virginia . 
so we are talking about a relatively small part of a massive piece of real estate . 
this map very quickly puts in perspective one other key thing , the amount of oil represented by 1 million barrels per day coming from that one small piece of real estate , and that is a conservative estimate of the amount of oil that can be generated from this anwr reserve , over 1 million barrels a day . 
several other energy sources are addressed in this bill , wind power , which i certainly embrace coming from colorado . 
we produce a little wind power ourselves , but so do our friends from rhode island and connecticut represented in gray by about 3.7 million acres dedicated to wind energy . 
to generate the same amount of total energy is 1 million barrels of oil from anwr . 
in red , down at lake okeechobee , where they utilize solar , as we do also in colorado , but some 448 , 000 acres are dedicated to solar energy generation , to again apply the energy to 1 million barrels from anwr in one day . 
or in green , again the coastal plain , or in black the acreage , as i mentioned , from the lambert airport . 
ethanol is in yellow . 
massive piece of ground . 
we have heard much about ethanol already tonight on the floor of the house . 
ethanol is also of interest to the eastern plains , especially in colorado , where we grow a whole lot of corn . 
i see one of my colleagues from iowa here tonight grinning a bit . 
i know it is important to him . 
but you see the massive amount of land acreage , 80.5 million acres that would have to be dedicated to growing corn to produce as much ethanol as we get from a million barrels of oil a day in alaska . 
now , to the point i really wanted to address , and this is the point . 
we ought to remember that there are precious few people who actually live in that very difficult , very hostile environment in the world , anwr , which is literally on the coast of the arctic ocean . 
i went up and visited that . 
if i can put this map back up , i will put it in proper perspective . 
prudhoe bay , which we often talk about , is located here , again literally on the edge of the arctic ocean . 
a small village of kaktovik is roughly where that green dot is . 
we actually flew over in a very small plane , landed on a gravel runway and visited these people in kaktovik ; about 270 of them actually manage to survive in that very , very difficult environment . 
how do they do that ? 
they still hunt the whale . 
they go out when the arctic ocean opens up a little bit and get in the open water and they are allowed to get three whale a year . 
they fish for arctic char and they survive on them . 
and , yes , they hunt and kill and eat the caribou meat , as they have for generations and generations . 
that is how they survive . 
i submit to this body and submit to the american people that if anyone is concerned about preserving that environment , it is these people . 
not because it is pristine , not because they like the view , not because the air is very , very clean , but it is about survival . 
it is about their very existence . 
if that environment changes , these people have a very , very serious , life-threatening problem . 
if anybody is interested in maintaining that environment unchanged , it is them . 
and we all know what the environment is supposed to look like . 
it looks like this for a small window of the year . 
it is covered with caribou and a little bit of short grass , as i saw it in august when i was there . 
and , actually , the caribou , from 1972 to current days , in about a 30-year window , have increased , not decreased . 
since we did the prudhoe bay development , they have actually increased by about tenfold , a thousand percent . 
and we have heard much about that . 
that is how anwr looks some of the year . 
this is how anwr looks most of the year . 
that is not the moon , that is actually ice , and that is about all that is there . 
it is frozen and it is ice covered . 
how much oil is there ? 
the experts , the scientists tell us that if we would develop anwr , and frankly , had we gone ahead and done it in 1995 , when congress actually approved it and president clinton vetoed the bill , today we would be bringing over a million barrels a day to the lower 48 from anwr . 
how much is a million barrels a day ? 
actually , they project almost 1.4 million a day from anwr . 
that is almost as much as we import daily from , yes , saudi arabia , our largest single source of imported oil , almost a direct offset to saudi arabia . 
now , what do the people in anwr think ? 
final point . 
we asked fenton rexford , who is the president of the native indian corporation that populates that little piece of real estate , well , that very large piece of real estate but very small group of people . 
what should we do with anwr ? 
i asked him the question . 
two-word answer : drill it . 
i said , really ? 
he said , yes , drill it . 
i said , is that what your villagers think ? 
he had already told us there were 271 people living there that day . 
he said , well , at least 270 of them agree . 
that is close to unanimous . 
one of my colleagues said , but what about the caribou ? 
this was after he told us how they depend on the caribou for their very survival . 
he said , what about it ? 
well , my colleague said , if we happen to drill there , explore there , develop there , we might scare them off or change their migratory pattern . 
and the president looked at us and he said , you are missing something here , and we all leaned forward in eager anticipation . 
he said you are missing something here . 
we said , what is that ? 
we hunt them and kill them and they come back . 
and we all said , oh , yeah , you do . 
we hunt them and kill them and they come back . 
you are not going to scare them off by exploring for a little bit of oil out here . 
he said again , drill it . 
with that , madam speaker , i yield back . 
mr. chairman , i claim the time on the majority side for the committee on science . 
mr. chairman , it gives me great pleasure to yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 , the illustrious chairman of the committee on science . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. inglis ) xz4006490 , a member of the committee on science . 
mr. chairman , i yield for the purpose of making a unanimous consent request to the gentleman from illinois ( mr. kirk ) xz4002220 . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
in closing , i express my appreciation for the leadership of the committee on science and my colleagues on the committee for their contributions to the development of the provisions in the r & amp ; d title of h.r. 6 . 
they are bipartisan , forward thinking , balanced , and speak to the importance that we as a congress place on the role of technology in our energy future . 
i would also express my appreciation for the extremely professional staff of all the relevant committees , as well as the key leadership staff who worked diligently on this bill for months and in some cases years . 
i want to thank the able staff of committee on science and its energy subcommittee . 
their contributions and those of countless others have resulted in a better bill which i urge my colleagues to support . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i rise to claim the time in opposition to the davis-waxman amendment . 
mr. chairman , the chair did not ask him if he rose in opposition . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman . 
i appreciate both of the gentlemen for yielding time to me . 
i rise in opposition to this amendment which strikes from the bill a section that makes two simple , but important organizational changes at the department of energy . 
as the title of the section implies , these two changes are designated to improve the coordination and management of civilian science and technology programs at the department of energy . 
first , section 978 ( a ) of h.r. 6 simply changes from director to assistant secretary the title of the position responsible for overseeing the doe office of science . 
let me be clear about this . 
the director of the office of science already is an assistant secretary in all but title . 
like the other assistant secretaries at doe , the director of the office of science is already appointed by the president and confirmed by the senate . 
like the other assistant secretaries at doe , the director position is on an executive schedule . 
like the other assistant secretaries at the doe , the director position is a level iv on the executive schedule . 
this is not a new position nor is it a promotion . 
this is a title change only , no extra pay , no extra head count , no extra bureaucracy . 
this simple title change is still critically important to the operation and organization of the doe . 
we all know how important titles are within our federal departments and agencies , and this title change appropriately acknowledges the central importance of science and technology to fulfilling the department 's varied missions . 
that is why the person with the primary responsibility for overseeing basic scientific research within the department should have at least the same title as his or her counterparts who are responsible for applied energy research as their mission of the department . 
the second provision contained in section 978 ( b ) creates an additional assistant secretary at the department and expresses the sense of congress that the leadership for departmental missions in nuclear energy should be at the assistant secretary level . 
i would really like to thank the gentleman from virginia ( mr. tom davis ) for clarification of his position and his willingness to work to find an acceptable compromise , and also for the gentleman from texas ( chairman barton ) for his commitment to revisit this issue . 
i yield to the gentleman from new york , the chairman of the committee on science . 
mr. chairman , i note that the gentleman from ohio included in the committee report a provision directing the secretary of energy to begin moving commercial spent nuclear fuel into interim storage at one or more department of energy sites . 
i want to be sure that your intent is for the secretary to focus his attention on existing doe sites and not go looking for private sites that might be used for interim storage . 
is my understanding of the gentleman 's intent correct ? 
i yield to the gentleman from ohio . 
so the gentleman does not see any reason the secretary would consider a non-doe site for interim storage ? 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from ohio for his hard work and his courtesy . 
mr. speaker , this is interesting , hearing our colleagues talk about this bill . 
i think that people and many of our colleagues know that this bill has been born out over 4 years of hard work , hundreds of hearings , hundreds of hours of testimony . 
it is a balanced bill . 
mr. speaker , i certainly believe it is one that bridges the needs that we have today with where we need to be in the future as we look to renewable energy sources and alternative sources . 
one of the things that the chairman mentioned a few moments ago is bipartisan support that we have had on some of our initiatives , and certainly we feel like we will see this on the energy bill . 
we saw it in committee , and i would commend the gentleman from texas ( chairman barton ) for the wonderful work he did on the bill in committee . 
over the past few weeks , we had 122 democrats that voted with us on the continuity of government bill , 50 democrats voted with us on class action , 73 democrats voted with us on bankruptcy reform , and 42 supported us on repeal of the death tax , and our real i.d . 
act . 
i hope this is a sign of things to come , that there will be bipartisan cooperation as we look to this energy bill , because it is a fair bill . 
it is a fair rule that addresses this bill . 
mr. speaker , supporting this rule and supporting this bill is good for small business . 
it is great for american small business , for main street , for jobs creation . 
we have an economy that has created nearly 2 million jobs in the past couple of years , 3 million jobs in the past couple of years . 
we are excited about what is happening with the growth of the economy . 
we know that this bill is going to do good work in continuing to support main street , support our small business community , support our small business manufacturers , and will address some of the concerns they have about energy policy , oil policy , electrical policy and how it affects the business that they carry forth every day . 
mr. speaker , i encourage my colleagues to support the rule and to support the bill . 
madam speaker , what a day we have had here in the house . 
we have talked about energy policy . 
and having an energy bill come to the floor of this house is something that we have waited for for quite a period of time . 
i want to congratulate the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 and our colleagues on the committee on energy and commerce . 
as we have had this occur today , it has been quite an effort . 
our energy committee , last week we talked about it earlier in the week and we talked about it the past week . 
we had about a third of the democrats in the house join us in voting that bill out of committee last week . 
they did it because it is a good bill . 
and they did it because it is time for us to have an energy bill , and it is the right step in the right way at this point in time . 
i know that we have some across the aisle , many who are going to follow the liberal leadership there and walk in lockstep with the gentlewoman from california ( ms. pelosi ) xz4003140 , but i think we are going to see more of the house democrats join us to make this energy bill a reality for the american people . 
i would like to remind my colleagues that over the last few weeks we have seen quite a bit of bipartisan support on some of our legislation . 
we had 122 democrats vote with us on the continuity of government bill , 50 democrats voted with us on the class action bill , 73 democrats voted with the republicans on bankruptcy reform , and 42 supported our repeal of the death tax and the real i.d . 
act . 
so we look forward tomorrow to having our democrat colleagues from across the aisle join us as we move forward on our nation 's energy policy . 
we have several members who have joined us tonight to talk about energy and to talk about energy policy . 
one of those is the gentleman from texas ( mr. hall ) xz4001650 , and i would like to yield some time to the gentleman to talk with us about the energy bill . 
i also want to thank the gentleman for the wonderful leadership that he has shown on this bill . 
at this point , i yield to the gentleman from texas ( mr. hall ) xz4001650 . 
madam speaker , i thank the gentleman so much for his thoughts , and i thank him for his leadership on the committee on energy and commerce , and the gentleman from texas is exactly right . 
this is an issue about the future . 
it is an issue that affects our children , and as he said , it is an issue about the economy , about security and how we need to look at our sources of oil , our security , and many times we feel we are too reliant on foreign oil , which we are . 
right now , 62 percent of the nation 's oil supply is coming from foreign sources . 
if we do not take action and pass an energy bill , it is going to be 75 percent by 2010 . 
so we know that action is necessary and it is needed now . 
the gentleman from texas also mentioned new technologies , new ways of doing things , and that is something that certainly we have to have our eye towards . 
we look at the needs for today and then as we bridge to the future . 
at this point , madam speaker , i yield to the gentleman from nebraska ( mr. terry ) xz4004000 who will talk with us a little bit about liquefied natural gas and about turning that corner , beginning to look at things a little bit differently . 
madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for his leadership on this issue and for his diligent work on behalf of his constituents and on behalf of all americans as we are working on this bill and bringing it forward to the house , getting it ready to move forward and looking forward to the time that the president signs this into law , so that we do have an energy policy . 
a couple of points i would like to highlight with my colleagues that the gentleman from nebraska brought forward to us , this bill is , as he said , forward thinking and it is now thinking , and it is important as we look at these two provisions that we realize it is this way because we have to think about small business . 
we have to think about farmers . 
we have to think about the impact of this on the economy . 
madam speaker , as the gentleman from nebraska has said , this is about jobs . 
we think about our economy . 
this wonderful free enterprise system that we have in this great nation of ours has created nearly 3 million jobs in the past 2 years , and we need to continue that . 
this economic engine needs to continue working . 
we do not hear enough about the jobs creation that has happened . 
we do not hear enough about the tax relief that has happened over the past couple of years , but we know that jobs creation is such an important part and an energy policy will serve as a boost for that jobs creation . 
i thank the gentleman from nebraska , and at this point i yield to the gentleman from colorado ( mr. beauprez ) xz4000200 who has been a leader on the energy issue , has done a wonderful job for his constituents in the state of colorado and is going to talk with us for a few minutes about anwr and the implications of anwr . 
madam speaker , i thank the gentleman from colorado for the explanation of this . 
i think it is so important for us to keep this in perspective . 
we are talking about 2 , 000 acres when we talk about anwr , and it is in many hundreds of thousands of acres . 
it is like putting a quarter on the dining room table , that is the relationship of that space . 
so i thank the gentleman from colorado for his work on the issue . 
the gentleman from idaho , who is a member and a leader on the committee on energy and commerce , has certainly worked on some of the issues dealing with refineries and permitting . 
we have not had a new refinery built in the country in 30 years , madam speaker . 
and as i mentioned earlier , the bill addresses our needs for today and looks toward the future . 
obviously , there are some in this body who would like for us to flip a switch and tomorrow start driving hydrogen fuel cell cars and to start doing things we would all love to see happen , to look at more alternative sources . 
but we have to think about where our economy is today and meeting those needs for oil and gas today while at the same time we are planning for the future . 
the gentleman from idaho ( mr. otter ) xz4003050 is going to talk with us for a few moments about refineries and permitting and some of the points that are covered that address the needs of today and of our economy today . 
so i thank the gentleman for joining us and i yield to him . 
madam speaker , i thank the gentleman from idaho ( mr. otter ) xz4003050 for his leadership to our committee . 
to mention a couple of things that the gentleman highlighted , and one is the amount of time that has gone into this bill . 
during the 107th congress that the gentleman from idaho ( mr. otter ) xz4003050 spoke about , that was 2001-2002 , the republican-led committee on energy and commerce held 28 hearings related to a comprehensive energy bill . 
in 2002 , the committee spent 21 hours marking up an energy bill and considering 79 amendments . 
in 2003 , there were 22 hours and 80 amendments . 
in 3 years the republicans in the house have held 80 public hearings with 12 committee markups and 279 amendments . 
that is the amount of work and energy that has gone into what the gentleman so appropriately describes as a total-concept bill . 
another point was about the permitting . 
one of the things that we have all learned so well in our public service is if you want less of something , pile on the taxes , pile on the regulation because you are going to get less of it . 
if you want more of something , you have lighter regulation , lower taxes ; and you are going to see that flourish . 
those are certainly points that we take to heart as we look at the energy bill . 
i thank the gentleman from idaho ( mr. otter ) xz4003050 for his good work on this effort . 
a gentleman who has been a leader on the issue of small business and taxation and regulation and how that affects our economy is the gentleman from iowa ( mr. king ) xz4002201 . 
i certainly welcome him to our debate tonight . 
i appreciate the leadership that the gentleman shows in the committee on the budget and in the republican study committee as we work to lower taxes and spending and address appropriate regulation . 
i thank the gentleman from iowa for spending some time with us . 
he is exactly right , madam speaker . 
this is a homeland security and an economic security issue . 
we realize that . 
competitiveness is important . 
we know , just as the gentleman said , we are meeting today 's needs . 
we can not not address the needs of today . 
that does require us to address oil and gas . 
at the same time we have to build that bridge to the future . 
this bill does that and does put the focus on biodiesel , biomass , ethanol , wind , hydropower , hybrid cars , hydrogen fuel cells , solar power , and all of those alternative and renewable energy sources so that we will have a goal of reducing that dependence on foreign oil . 
madam speaker , i yield to the gentleman from texas ( mr. gohmert ) xz4006510 who is going to talk with us about the economic issues that affect his district in texas . 
madam speaker , i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. gohmert ) xz4006510 for participating with us tonight . 
he is exactly right . 
the estimate is that 500 , 000 new jobs will be created over the next year by the changes made in the energy policy for this nation . 
as i close this time that i have had tonight , i do want to certainly draw some attention to provisions of the bill , and tomorrow we hope that everyone is going to be able to talk with us and work with us as we go through the bill . 
and we are going to address so many things not only with our small business , but we are going to hear about electricity transmission and capability and reliability of our nation 's electricity and the electrical sources . 
everyone was concerned , and we all are , when we hear of brownouts and blackouts and the series of blackouts over the past decade . 
so electricity is something that we will be addressing . 
i yield to the gentlewoman from north carolina ( ms. foxx ) xz4006430 for her comments on the bill . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for her comments . 
as we continue with our debate , as we were saying earlier , we will be looking at electricity , and we are going to have some provisions in this bill that the federal government is going to lead on energy conservation issues . 
one of our colleagues talked earlier about clean coal technology and renewable sources . 
those will be addressed in the bill also . 
and we will look forward tomorrow as we come to the floor to being able to continue our discussion and to draw attention to these issues . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from texas for yielding me this time to speak in favor of this bill , and i thank him for his great leadership to bring this bill to the floor . 
for 6 years now , the president of the united states has been saying that one of our primary failings as a country was to have an energy policy that moved forward . 
for three congresses , our body has responded to that , first with the leadership of the gentleman from texas as chairman of the subcommittee , and now with his leadership as chairman of the full committee , bringing an energy bill to the house floor for three straight congresses . 
what we do here today and tomorrow can be extremely important to solve the problems that we see at the gas pumps today , to solve the problems that we see if you try to buy fertilizer today , to solve the natural gas problems . 
now , it will not solve these problems next week or next month , or even maybe the month after that . 
if , however , we had passed the bill my colleague had brought to the floor 4 years ago , these problems we see today would not be the large problems that we see today . 
and for the leadership of this chairman , the leadership of the chairman of the committee on ways and means , and the leadership of the chairman of the committee on resources , i am grateful . 
i am also grateful to our friends on the other side , led by the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 . 
they did the hard work they did in the markup . 
while they may not have agreed with all of the final product , certainly many parts of this product benefited from the work they did on this committee . 
one of the things we have done is illustrated here by a map that just shows how many kinds of fuel there are all over the united states . 
we have tried to limit the numbers of those fuels in this bill , and even asked the epa to look to the future and see what that right number is . 
every time you make gasoline less of a commodity and make it more of a specialty item , you increase the cost , reduce the reliability , and the access to gasoline . 
we hope to move away from that . 
we hope to do more things to use conservation and use renewable fuels . 
this is the right step . 
it is after the right time . 
i wish i could say it is the right step at the right time , but , mr. chairman , it is not the fault of our committee or our body . 
we need to move forward now . 
i urge passage of this bill . 
madam chairman , when george w. bush was running for president six years ago , he said that our country had been without a comprehensive energy policy for a decade . 
we are now going on sixteen years with no energy plan for america , and it is not for lack of trying . 
the house of representatives has passed energy legislation four times , only to have the bills die in the senate because of partisan politicking . 
keeping the lights on should not be a partisan issue . 
filling up a gas tank should not be a partisan issue . 
madam chairman , gas prices are at an all-time high . 
i want to thank chairman joe barton for working with me to include a provision in this bill to curb the production of boutique fuel blends and address this issue head-on . 
the current gasoline supply includes specially formulated , boutique fuels which are required by law in certain communities . 
when supplies are limited , gas prices rise quickly -- sometimes overnight . 
for example : missourians can fill their gas tanks up in springfield and drive 3 hours to st . 
louis . 
when they get there , they 'll be filling their tanks up with a completely different type of gasoline . 
but if st . 
louis ever runs short on their boutique fuel , gas stations there ca n't sell what consumers could buy back in springfield . 
the energy bill we will vote on tomorrow caps the number of these special fuel blends and allows communities faced with a shortage due to unforeseen circumstances , such as a refinery fire , a waiver to use conventional gasoline . 
this plan relies on simple economics : if we create a larger market for a greater amount of gasoline , we 'll help drive prices down . 
by including this proposal in the energy bill , the house is moving the country one step closer to lowering the sky-high price of gas for consumers . 
madam chairman , it 's time to see some common sense at the gas pump . 
i urge my colleagues to support this rule , support the underlying bill , and vote for lower gas prices and increased energy independence for america . 
mr. chairman , i first want to thank chairman barton for putting so much time and effort into this legislation . 
it is due to his leadership and commitment to establishing a better national energy policy that we are here today . 
h.r. 6 takes many important steps . 
i am especially pleased at its focus on renewable energy and i thank chairman barton for including my renewable energy production incentive ( repi ) legislation in the bill . 
in addition to repi , h.r. 6 also helps homeowners across the nation through its weatherization assistance program and makes an important commitment to hydrogen fuel research , including my public transit provision , to spur the development of hydrogen vehicles and infrastructure . 
teaming together with private enterprise , we can become less dependent on using fossil fuels for our homes and our cars . 
but while we work towards achieving freedom from oil and those nations who produce it , the reality is we still need this resource . 
to address that need and its impact on our economy , this legislation also helps expand domestic exploration . 
we can take important steps in not only creating a greater sense of independence and lowering the costs at the pump , but also help our own economy and the small , independent producers who are struggling today . 
we can not and should not allow our very own producers to be overlooked when resources are limited and the price of gas is rising . 
my home state of california has seen its share of energy problems . 
it is critical for our nation to have a national strategy on energy so we can clear many of these hurdles looming in our future . 
this bill takes our country in the right direction . 
again , i wish to thank chairman barton for his diligence and effort on this legislation . 
mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from michigan for yielding this time to me and commend him on his outstanding leadership with regard to the energy bill now before us . 
i have supported the passage of comprehensive energy legislation for the last two congresses , and i rise in support of the measure that is before the house this afternoon . 
while i do not support all of the sections of the bill , there are a number of provisions in the energy measure that i believe will enhance our nation 's energy policy and energy security . 
for example , the legislation makes valuable improvements in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy and would make permanent the northeast home heating oil reserve . 
of particular interest to me is the title on coal which would provide for the implementation of the clean coal power initiative to develop projects that would utilize clean coal technologies . 
the coal title also provides for the clean air coal program to enhance the deployment of fully developed clean coal technologies . 
coal is our nation 's most abundant natural resource for energy production , and it is appropriate that we take steps to accomplish the goal of incenting coal use and thereby relieving to some extent the pressure that we are experiencing at the present time on natural gas prices . 
the clean air coal program would help to advance that objective . 
the electricity title in the energy bill contains some beneficial provisions , and i particularly want to call attention to the smart metering title which i proposed 2 years ago in order to accelerate the deployment of real-time metering . 
when consumers have knowledge of the savings they can realize by using appliances during offpeak hours , the peaks can be flattened and the utilities can avoid the necessity of having to build some very expensive new generating facilities . 
i am pleased that during the last congress , we were able to reach a compromise which is also reflected in the bill before us today regarding the application of section 210 of purpa , and the legislation contains the noncontroversial and much-needed section that would make transmission reliability standards mandatory . 
i am concerned , however , that the bill before us includes a provision that would cap spending on the implementation of the reliability standards . 
i am concerned about that and would hope that when this measure becomes law , enough money will be available for adequate enforcement . 
i also remain concerned about the total repeal of the public utilities holding company act without ensuring that adequate consumer protections remain in place . 
and i have not been convinced that there is a need to give the federal energy regulatory commission the ultimate authority to site transmission power lines . 
i support the legislation and i encourage my colleagues to vote for it . 
i want to conclude these remarks by complimenting again the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 on his outstanding leadership and also complimenting the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 of the committee on energy and commerce . 
he was willing to work in a bipartisan fashion in order to establish consensus on a number of these measures . 
i applaud him for that willingness and for the effective work that he has done in bringing this measure to the floor . 
mr. chairman , i encourage the passage of the bill . 
madam chairman , i thank the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 for yielding me this time , and i want to commend the gentleman for bringing this very important substitute for the electricity title in the bill before the house this afternoon . 
i strongly support the substitute for the electricity provisions in the bill put forward by the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 . 
the dingell amendment would improve current law in a number of ways . 
it would enhance the ferc 's ability to deter and punish parties that engage in fraudulent activities that harm consumers . 
it would create reporting requirements based on the record-keeping requirements under the federal securities laws for all wholesale energy transactions . 
it would increase civil and criminal penalties under the federal power act modeled on the penalties established in the sarbanes-oxley law . 
it would direct the ferc to review approved market-based rates on an annual basis to remain sure that they are fair and reasonable as circumstances change . 
unfortunately , one of the things that we have learned during the last few years is that the energy markets are ripe for manipulation . 
the dingell substitute would modernize our laws to give the ferc the necessary tools to prevent and , if necessary , punish the entities that engage in fraudulent conduct . 
in addition to the strong consumer protection and antifraud provisions , the dingell amendment also retains the less controversial and very useful parts of the electricity title , including the much-needed reliability provisions for transmission lines , the net metering and smart metering provisions and ferc lite , to name other provisions . 
the dingell substitute would be a positive addition to the federal law , ensuring that wholesale electricity markets operate in an efficient and equitable manner . 
i strongly support the dingell substitute and urge its approval by the house . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to the markey amendment . 
of course , energy independence should be the goal of this congress . 
worldwide demand for petroleum has increased in the last decade . 
our production has been relatively flat . 
the inevitable result is higher prices at the gasoline pump . 
the reality is , it takes a long time to go from the oil field to the gasoline station , and we have lost considerable time in this regard . 
ten years ago , 1995 , 104th congress , h.r. 2491 would have allowed oil exploration in the anwr . 
the department of energy has estimated , and the chairman quoted today , between 1 and 2 million barrels of oil a day could be derived from this source . 
unfortunately , this legislation , passed by the house and the senate , was vetoed by president clinton . 
that was nearly 10 years ago . 
given a time line of 7 to 14 years for building a pipeline structure , it is time that we could scarcely afford . 
just like the other gentleman from california , i have been to anwr . 
the vast coastal plain is unsuitable for habitation during the summer months because of the marshy consistency . 
any caribou unlucky enough to calve in this region would likely die from exsanguination at the hands of the mosquitoes there . 
the people in anwr are counting on this congress to do the right thing and allow them , the rightful owners of these mineral rights , to begin developing the sources that were granted to them upon statehood in 1959 . 
mr. chairman , i stand today in opposition for raising the cafe standards . 
this is an irrelevant piece of legislation that is not only unnecessary , it is an outdated solution in search of a 21st century problem . 
changing technology and innovation have rendered this amendment unnecessary . 
the increasing use of hybrid vehicles shows that a market-based approach to increasing fuel efficiency is a better way to reduce american oil consumption than by placing arbitrary standards on automobiles that harm our domestic manufacturers . 
and , in fact , the only thing we get with cafe standards down in my district are car dealers with acres and acres of tiny cars they can not sell . 
with today 's high gas prices , hybrid vehicles will help reduce the amount of money that our constituents pay at the gas pump . 
mr. chairman , in the interest of full disclosure , i drive a hybrid vehicle . 
i did not buy it because of the tax break . 
i did not buy it because of any legislation that we passed in this congress . 
i bought it largely because of air quality concerns back in my district . 
but now i look positively brilliant that gasoline prices are so high . 
but the best thing about a hybrid vehicle , mr. chairman , is it allows you that feeling of moral superiority as you drive your car . 
mr. chairman , i rise this morning in opposition to the udall amendment . 
the udall amendment will strike section 631 , which provides r & amp ; d funding for environmentally sensitive uranium mining and reclamation . 
nuclear power is an important part of our domestic fuel mix . 
it is an emission-free source of electricity that powers our homes and businesses . 
today , nuclear power provides 20 percent of power in the united states . 
as our economy continues to grow , we will consume more electricity . 
i think we can all agree that a healthy , robust economy is a desirable thing . 
clean air is also desirable . 
nuclear power will help provide the electricity that our growing economy needs without increasing emissions . 
this is truly an environmentally responsible source of energy . 
section 631 will encourage improvements to uranium mining practices to make them more environmentally friendly . 
it encourages new environmental clean-up technologies as well . 
nuclear power is here to stay , and we need to support a strong domestic uranium industry . 
we are at a point in our nation 's history where we can not afford to turn our back on any reasonable power source to meet our nation 's energy needs . 
i urge my colleagues to vote against the udall amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the capps amendment . 
during our committee hearing on february 16 , 2005 , we had a lively and substantial debate on the mtbe limited defective product liability waiver contained in the energy bill . 
and during our markup last week , the committee considered a number of amendments on the mtbe provisions , including several offered by mrs. capps . 
during our hearing on the 16th , we heard testimony from many different people , including mr. erik olson on behalf of the national resources defense council . 
during his testimony , mr. olson alleged that mtbe causes cancer . 
later in the hearing , i asked mr. olson if there is any conclusive evidence that proves that mtbe causes cancer in humans . 
mr. olson was unable to answer . 
that is because there is no evidence that mtbe does cause cancer in humans . 
in fact , in the u.s. department of health and human services ' 2002 report to congress , hhs found that there is not sufficient evidence to list mtbe as a carcinogen . 
even the world health organization and the european union have both concluded that there are `` negative results '' or inadequate evidence that would merit classification of mtbe as a carcinogen . 
regardless , we do not want mtbe in our drinking water . 
but nor do we want benzene nor any other gasoline component that may be seeping into our groundwater . 
that is why the energy bill bans its use in gasoline . 
that is why there are provisions in the bill that will send more leaking underground storage tank trust fund money to help cleanup orphaned and abandoned sites . 
in conclusion , i oppose the capps amendment . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 for yielding me this time . 
the gentleman has done a magnificent job leading the committee on this new bill . 
i would just say , in america we face some great challenges with regard to formulation of our energy policy . 
the oil demand growth keeps rising due to the industrialization of the emerging world . 
china consumes 7 million barrels per day ; and if china 's rise in world prominence is similar to that of korea and japan , china will consume 20 million barrels per day in less than 10 years . 
the last big oil discovery was 30 years ago in the north sea . 
china is trying to buy oil companies in canada ; india is trying to buy oil companies in russia ; the present world production capacity is 83 million barrels a day ; and we are running an estimated 81.5 million today , which means we are in the red zone . 
the 14 largest oil fields in the world are 40 years old . 
once they are taken out to 50 percent , water and fluids need to be pumped to keep production at existing levels . 
we have some significant challenges . 
support this bill . 
mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentleman for engaging in this colloquy with me addressing the department of defense , dod 's concern in any decision ferc would make authorizing the siting of liquefied natural gas facilities , lng , on or contiguous to our defense installations . 
mr. chairman , i know and believe our colleagues all recognize the extreme importance of our duty to ensure that our men and women in uniform are able to operate and train in an environment free of any unnecessary constraints . 
should a proposal to site an lng terminal be on or adjacent to a military installation or range , i believe there would be concerns that should be addressed as to whether there may be an impact upon military operations , training and readiness . 
among the factors that may impact the day-to-day operations of a military installation or range include the actual location of an lng storage and regasification unit , shipment routes , frequency of shipments , natural gas pipelines , maintenance and inspection regimes , and other activities mandated by federal and state laws and regulations . 
i have spoken with the officials at the department of defense and assessing non-military impacts to installation operations and training is something they are capable of and in fact do on a regular basis . 
it is my belief the department of defense should have a role in assessing the impact of such proposed sitings to be considered on or contiguous to a military installation or range . 
i believe that the commission should consider the department 's evaluations so that any siting does not interfere with our military 's duties as prescribed in title 10 of the u.s. code . 
mr. chairman , can you confirm that we can discuss this concern further at conference ? 
i thank the gentleman . 
mr. chairman , the comprehensive energy package that we pass today is a major step forward in our ability to provide certainty in the united states ' energy sector . 
this legislation is the result of hundreds of hours of work developing a plan that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil , improve our economy , and create jobs . 
this legislation improves our nation 's electricity transmission and reliability . 
it provides for safer , stable and more reliable energy sources within our own country , making us less reliant on oil from the middle east . 
clean coal technology and incentives for renewable energies are a key part to the future of energy production and consumption in this country . 
domestic oil and gas exploration will make us less susceptible to the rising prices of foreign energy sources . 
and let us not forget that this bill does something for american families . 
as gas prices climb , it becomes more and more expensive to take our children to sports games , visit out-of-town family , and even drive . 
to work . 
we need relief from high gas prices and this legislation is a step in that direction . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in support of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
completion of this energy bill is a step forward in our struggle for energy security and independence . 
a reliable and affordable energy supply is crucial to america 's economic vitality , security , and quality of life . 
while this energy bill is not perfect , we continue to make progress towards promoting energy conservation and efficiency ; increasing the use of all domestic energy resources , including coal and ethanol ; improving our energy infrastructure ; and promoting the development of advanced energy technologies . 
the combustion of fossil fuels is essential to our energy policy and must continue to be a part of a balanced energy plan for this country . 
coal is absolutely critical to our nation 's economic health and global competitiveness because there is no present alternative to coal to meet our energy needs . 
coal accounts for more than 50 percent of u.s. electricity production in the u.s. , and in my home state of illinois , the coal reserves contain more btu 's than the oil reserves of saudi arabia and kuwait . 
twenty-three of the state 's 82 generating facilities run on coal and employ over 2 , 883 employees . 
however , a majority of the coal facilities burn western coal . 
the coal provisions included in today 's energy bill could help these plants switch back to illinois coal , keep them operating in a more environmentally friendly way , and maintains jobs . 
i am pleased this year 's energy bill contains provisions for clean coal technologies to burn coal more efficiently and cleanly with the hope of achieving a healthier environment while maintaining jobs . 
specifically , i am referring to an important provision in h.r. 6 that authorizes $ 200 million for fiscal years 2006 through 2014 for the clean coal power initiative ( ccpi ) to direct the secretary of energy to carry out pollution control and coal gasification projects to promote environmentally safe energy production using performance goals for coal emissions , awarding grants and funding coal gasification projects . 
i am also pleased the energy bill again contains my language to create national centers for coal research , one of which is southern illinois university carbondale ( siuc ) because of the university 's proven record of demonstrating clean coal technologies . 
further , this year in the house science committee , i introduced a new initiative that in addition to the clean coal provisions , the bill contains provisions instrumental in helping increase conservation and lowering consumption . 
included in this are ethanol provisions that are used as a replacement and additive for gasoline consumption . 
under this legislation , ethanol use would increase , nearly tripling the current requirement . 
this is expected to increase the average price of corn paid to farmers 6.6 percent , or 16 cents per bushel and increase average net cash income to farmers by $ 3.3 billion over the next decade , or more than six percent . 
this increased use of ethanol will save 1.3 billion barrels of oil by 2016 , improve the trade deficit by $ 28.5 billion over 15 years , add $ 135 billion to the american economy by 2016 through increased agricultural although i am pleased the energy bill promotes essential investments in energy efficiency , renewable fuels , and advanced vehicle technologies , much more is needed . 
the security and environmental challenges can no longer be overlooked if our country wants to truly reduce our oil dependence . 
therefore , i am disappointed the boehlert/markey amendment which i supported did not pass . 
this would have increased the fuel economy of america 's vehicles to 33 miles per gallon by 2015 . 
the technology exists today to make all vehicles to go farther on a gallon of gas while improving safety and consumer choice . 
this amendment would save american consumers money at the gas pump , protects the environment , and cuts america 's dangerous dependence on oil . 
i am also disappointed an amendment offered by representatives markey and johnson that would prohibit drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge ( anwr ) . 
i have consistently opposed oil and gas exploration , development , and production in the arctic refuge and voted in favor of the markey/johnson amendment to strike the title from the bill . 
finally , i supported a motion to strike a provision in h.r. 6 that has been identified by the congressional budget office as an unfunded mandate on state and local governments and the private sector . 
this provision shifts the clean-up of methyl tertiary butyl ether ( mtbe ) , burden on communities and the federal government . 
clean up is a huge and growing problem in communities across the country , including my congressional district , as mtbe contamination is extremely expensive , and taxpayers should not be obligated to pick up the tab . 
mr. chairman , america deserves an energy policy that makes the country safer and more secure . 
there are many aspects of the energy bill , such as the coal and ethanol provisions that help illinois , and i will work with my colleagues to ensure they are an integral part of our energy future . 
madam chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
wyoming is often called the energy basket of america , but people in my state who are taking out emergency loans just to fill up their pickup 's tanks would not know it . 
in my home town of casper , gas is $ 2.10 a gallon ; in cheyenne it is almost $ 2.20 . 
it is $ 2.30 in riverton and $ 2.40 in jackson . 
madam chairman , that is just too much . 
some of the people around the country who pay close to $ 3 a gallon might think wyoming 's prices are a bargain . 
but remember , wyoming covers almost 100 , 000 square miles . 
that is a lot of miles on the highway to do business , and a lot of money at the gas pump . 
wyoming can not support subways or mass transit when we do not have masses in the first place . 
this spike in gas prices has real consequences for people in wyoming whose drives to work are measured not by the length of the country and western song on the radio , but by the entire country and western album . 
when our country was threatened by terror attacks on 9/11 , congress acted . 
now congress is called upon to act again . 
to keep our economy sound in wyoming , we must pass this energy plan . 
this bill will cut our reliance on foreign energy and put our focus where it belongs , on domestic production . 
would you rather get the oil we need from the middle east or from midwest wyoming ? 
i know where i stand , and i have a number of bills within this package that address domestic energy production . 
it seems i have spent most of my congressional lifetime helping to develop this package , so i know a little bit about it . 
it will strengthen america 's standing as the nation with the most strict environmental laws on earth . 
it will streamline the process to safely explore for new energy sources and put us on the road to energy self-sufficiency . 
the opponents of this bill urge a `` no '' vote because it is not a quick fix at the pump . 
madam chairman , since when does a quick fix actually fix anything ? 
when does a `` no '' vote without an alternative actually fix anything ? 
what america needs and what we have needed for a long time , for more than a generation , is a comprehensive energy plan . 
i urge my colleagues to support the plan before us today . 
mr. chairman , i am opposed to my friend 's amendment , and he is a friend , he is a good friend . 
i have not had a chance to speak on the floor , but i thought this fit right in line with environmental justice . 
when many of us came in 1990 , the clean air act came up . 
and i remember mr. daschle , who is no longer with the other body , standing up and talking about how good mtbes were . 
none of us knew . 
i saw a special that showed how bad mtbes are , and that they are poisoning our waters in many communities . 
they should be removed . 
but when the government asks any industry to do its bidding , and it does that , then i think that the government should protect that individual , whatever the company is , because it did what the government told it to do . 
now , i think what we should do with this is push forward , help with the cleanup , and fight and do everything we can to get mtbes out of our system and out of our groundwater . 
the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo ) xz4003220 did that in 1996 , and my colleagues on the other side fought that tooth , hook and nail . 
i was the cosponsor of the bill . 
when you talk about justice , let us look at why we ended up with it , where we are , and let us work together to get rid of this stuff . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself 2 minutes . 
mr. chairman , section 978 creates two new senate-confirmed assistant secretary positions within the department of energy . 
this change would increase the total number of senate-confirmed assistant secretaries in the department from six to eight . 
the department of energy has been plagued by management problems for years . 
since 1990 gao has designated contract management at doe as a high-risk area for waste and mismanagement . 
a recently released gao report requested by the committee on government reform confirms that doe contract management should remain on the gao high-risk list . 
additionally , the doe inspector general has reported for years that the department is not doing enough to protect its facilities and materials from threats to our national security . 
while the issues that these proposed assistant secretaries would be responsible for no doubt are important issues , adding an additional layer of bureaucracy does not elevate the issue . 
doe management will not improve as a result of adding these new layers . 
in fact , the new position could have the opposite effect by slowing down the decision-making process . 
in addition to adding more unnecessary bureaucracy to the department , this section adds to the ranks over 500 positions in the executive branch that go through the cumbersome senate confirmation process . 
i have yet to be convinced that requiring positions below the secretary level through the confirmation process in the other body yields better candidates or more effective governmental administration . 
our committee on government reform , which has jurisdiction over the federal civil service and therefore the creation of new layers of bureaucracy , unanimously agreed to strike this section from the energy bill when the committee marked up our provisions last week . 
unfortunately , when the broader energy bill was cobbled together before coming to the floor , the provision was not only reinserted , it was added to by creating two new assistant secretaries rather than just one . 
based on conversations with my colleague that support the creation of these new positions , this is an issue that i pledge to work with them on as the bill moves through the conference . 
of the two new proposed positions , one is simply an elevation of a preexisting senate-confirmed post within doe , whereas the other is a brand new senate-confirmed position . 
for the time being , i urge my colleagues to support this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i would ask that maybe the gentleman from california ( mr. waxman ) xz4004250 could yield the gentlewoman from illinois ( mrs. biggert ) xz4000270 any time that he would have remaining , so that she could make a case . 
the gentlewoman in opposition to the amendment has no time because the gentleman has taken her time . 
i have 3 minutes remaining . 
i can give her 2 of my minutes . 
if the gentleman from california ( mr. waxman ) xz4004250 can give her a couple of minutes , she can make her case against our amendment . 
we will see how much time she takes . 
if the gentleman can see how much time she takes , and then we can give the balance to the gentlewoman from illinois ( mrs. biggert ) xz4000270 . 
i have a gentleman from our side who wants to speak in favor as well . 
we will try to accommodate the gentlewoman from illinois ( mrs. biggert ) xz4000270 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from nevada ( mr. porter ) xz4003240 . 
mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent each side be given 1 additional minute . 
mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent for 1 additional minute on each side . 
i thank the distinguished whip for yielding to me . 
mr. speaker , the house will convene on tuesday at 2 p.m . 
for legislative business . 
we will consider several measures under the suspension of the rules . 
a final list of those bills will be sent to the members ' offices by the end of the week . 
any votes called on these measures will be rolled until 6 : 30 p.m . 
on wednesday and thursday , the house will convene at 10 a.m . 
for legislative business . 
we will likely consider additional legislation under the suspension of the rules , as well as h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
mr. speaker , if the gentleman will yield further , obviously we would have liked to have met the statutory deadline of april 15 , but , unfortunately , we will not . 
i am advised that the speaker has not yet decided when he would like to appoint the conferees to meet with the senate , but it could occur as early as next week . 
hopefully , within the next few weeks we will have a conference report for the house to consider that provides for the extension of the pro-growth tax policies enacted in 2001 and 2003 , reduces non-security discretionary spending , and provides for important reforms of entitlement programs . 
mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman continuing to yield . 
the gentleman has touched on many points . 
i am advised , and i stand to be corrected , but having served on the committee on appropriations , the rules allow that once we pass the april 15 deadline for having a budget , the committee on appropriations is allowed to start their work without a budget . 
i am advised also by the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) of the committee on appropriations , who is walking in front of me right now and hopefully will correct me if i am wrong , that the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) has begun the appropriations process in earnest and he has a very ambitious schedule . 
in fact , i am told that we will have the opportunity to schedule appropriations bills for the floor by the middle of may , and i anticipate , not anticipate , we have set as a schedule , another way of putting it , we have turned over the schedule to the committee on appropriations to get their work done . 
it will be a very ambitious appropriations schedule starting the middle of may . 
mr. speaker , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding . 
the gentleman 's original question was when will we see a conference report for the budget come to the floor . 
i am hoping as soon as possible , obviously . 
i have no idea when the negotiations with the house and the senate will start in earnest , when we will appoint the conference committee . 
there is very little difference , quite frankly , from the house bill and the senate bill , and i would assume that the major issues will be taken care of in a matter of days , if not a couple of weeks . 
so i would assume that we could have a conference report on a budget hopefully by the first of may . 
at least that is what we would like to see happen . 
mr. speaker , if the gentleman will yield , that is correct , both wednesday and thursday . 
this is a major , major piece of legislation , as the gentleman from maryland knows . 
this bill has passed this house before . 
it required lengthy debate . 
it also required time to consider amendments , and we anticipate it taking all of wednesday and most of thursday to complete . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding . 
obviously , i can not anticipate what the committee on rules may do on this bill . 
i appreciate the gentleman yielding . 
i do recall that in the last congress when we approached the energy bill there was i think at least 20 , if not more , amendments allowed on the bill . 
i would anticipate that the same approach , because the bill is very similar to the bill we passed in the last congress , would be taken . 
mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding . 
this is a very , very important issue that upholds the integrity of the house , that has to do with the image of the house in making sure that the house can enforce its own rules in a bipartisan way . 
i would just remind the gentleman , with all the work that the gentleman from maryland ( mr. cardin ) xz4000640 and mr. livingston did , which is excellent work , unfortunately , we can not anticipate unintended consequences ; and once we start implementing that wonderful work , we find out that there are some flaws that need to be corrected . 
the speaker of the house looked at the last few years and decided that the rules allowed the use of the committee on standards of official conduct for partisan purposes , and its ability to act in a bipartisan way was seriously hindered . 
most importantly , there were some due-process issues to protect members of their due-process rights . 
i will give my colleagues one example . 
the committee , on its own , decided to change the way they operated from the past . 
in the past , when the committee wanted to warn a member about certain actions that were not in violation of the rules , they used to send a private letter to that member . 
this committee and the last committee had decided on their own that , without consulting with the affected member , to send a public letter and release the underlying documents to support their position , without the opportunity for a member to face the committee and discuss those letters of warning , the speaker felt very strongly that that undermines the rights of every member , both democrat and republican , to due process . 
the speaker , in his office , looked at the standing rules of the 108th congress in this regard and felt that some minor changes needed to be made ; one , to protect the committee from being politicized ; and , two , to protect members ' rights of due process . 
that suggestion by the speaker , as the gentleman knows , was brought to this house and debated extensively on this house floor , and those amendments to the rules were passed by the entire house , with some nay votes , i understand . 
i think it is unfortunate that we have found ourselves in this position , particularly when the speaker was trying to protect the rights of the members and certainly , more importantly , protect the integrity of the institution that we have reached this point . 
i am advised through the speaker that the chairman of the committee on standards of official conduct is working with his ranking member , and i would hope that they would come to some sort of agreement in how we get past this impasse . 
otherwise , the rights of members will not be protected , and i find that extremely unfortunate . 
will the gentleman yield ? 
will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman 's concerns . 
the gentleman has raised two issues : one is process and one is substance . 
on the process side , the gentleman is correct . 
and the gentleman would have to ask the speaker about the process of bringing the rules to the floor in a bipartisan way . 
and i do not want to second-guess the speaker , and the gentleman may well have a good argument on process . 
but in the substance , the gentleman is correct . 
and i hope all members are watching this because they need to consider this very strongly , that the gentleman can not have it both ways . 
the gentleman wants a bipartisan process . 
the speaker was bringing a bipartisan process , which means that in order to proceed to an investigative subcommittee you would have to have a majority vote , which would be bipartisan , a bipartisan vote to proceed to the investigative committee . 
what some partisans had found , that if there was no agreement and charges brought against a member , the member would be hung out to dry . 
there would be no action , or there could be automatic action without a majority vote of the committee . 
that is the problem . 
that is what allows people to use it for partisan politics is that if one side or the other decides to deadlock the ethics committee , then the member that has been charged can be held out and held up for many days , if not months , before a resolution of that charge comes . 
the speaker came up with a way to make sure that the committee is bipartisan because it requires a bipartisan vote to move forward . 
the gentleman is suggesting that he would like to change , for the house and the rights of the members , something that is so different than the rules of procedures in courts of law . 
if a grand jury is deadlocked in an indictment , there is no process that goes forward . 
if there is a full jury in a trial that is deadlocked , there is no process that goes forward . 
it has to be clear , without a reasonable doubt , with no reasonable doubt that the offense is right and needs to proceed . 
and that is why the speaker created a bipartisan process for that to proceed . 
and it can work for both sides politically . 
it can work for democrats as well as republicans . 
and that is why i say the speaker was trying and worked very hard to protect the rights of the accused , and more important than that , the rights of each and every member of this house . 
will the gentleman yield ? 
if the gentleman will yield , the gentleman has made my point . 
under the old rules , both sides could protect themselves . 
if the gentleman is not going to let me respond and interrupt me , then this colloquy can end . 
thank you . 
i appreciate that . 
as i was saying before i was interrupted , and i appreciate the gentleman yielding , the point is that both sides , in the old rules , both sides could shut the process down . 
the difference is , and it is a huge difference , the members would be hanging out there and with no resolution . 
and the gentleman is incorrect and misrepresents the process . 
the process starts with the ranking member and the chairman looking at the facts as presented to them by the person charging the member . 
and then they decide whether to submit a recommendation to the full committee to proceed further and what action should be taken . 
so the facts the gentleman is talking about start with the ranking member and the chairman . 
then a recommendation is submitted , just like a da would submit a recommendation to a grand jury . 
and this is the grand jury process , to the committee , and the committee makes a decision whether they go forward . 
now , what happens in practice is , if that member that has been charged receives from the committee that they are moving towards an investigative subcommittee , that is a huge hit on that member , whether he is guilty or not . 
the press run with it and all kinds of things happen , as the gentleman perfectly knows . 
so that step to go to an investigative subcommittee is a very , very important step . 
and that is why the speaker thought it was really important that a bipartisan vote be made in order to get to that step . 
it starts with his own ranking member making a decision , in concert , one vote to one vote , with the chairman , whether to submit the recommendation to the committee to proceed . 
and that is where the gentleman 's concerns can be taken care of as to whether it is going to be blocked one way or another . 
then once they have made that recommendation , if they make a strong recommendation to proceed to an investigative subcommittee , i guarantee you , because you have a republican chairman and a democrat ranking member , the committee is going to follow their recommendation more times than not , and you will have a bipartisan , and in many cases , a unanimous vote to proceed to the next step . 
the problem is , and it is a real problem that was used , where you come to a deadlock , then there is no resolution for the member that has been charged . 
and the speaker felt very strongly that that undermines the rights of every member of this house . 
will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. speaker , i appreciate the comments by the gentleman who worked so hard on that bipartisan ethics reform taskforce that made recommendations to the house . 
and i appreciate that the gentleman is trying to protect those rules that he worked on . 
but i remind the gentleman that when those rules were voted on , both gentlemen from maryland voted against the rules they are trying to protect today . 
and then i might say your comments are well taken . 
the length of time is a problem . 
we have recognized that is a problem and i am told , i have not talked to the ethics chairman , but i am told through the speaker that the ethics chairman has offered to negotiate the time problem with the ranking member . 
i do not know what the result of that has been , but i know that the speaker has been informed by the chairman that he is more than willing to work on those issues , and i know the speaker told me that he is open to fixing that time problem that the gentleman brings up and is concerned about . 
if the gentleman would yield , i appreciate that . 
i yield back . 
if the gentleman would yield . 
i have to remind the gentleman , and i know going back to 1997 is very difficult , but this was not part of the rules package . 
this was voted on september 18 , 1997 , and it was on the recommendations for reforming the committee on standards of official conduct , and the gentleman that worked on the recommendation and the gentleman speaking voted against the recommendations , not on the house rules package . 
my point , and i do not want to belabor that for the gentleman , i think it is very important that if the gentleman is protecting a package and a rules ethics reform that he voted against , i think that is one thing . 
but the other thing is we are working in a bipartisan way , i hope . 
the chairman and ranking member are dealing with this . 
a commission would just open up the whole recommendations that the gentleman from maryland worked on and the gentleman from louisiana worked on . 
i do not think we need a complete overhaul of the ethics process , but there are certain problems that were found in practice that the speaker felt needed to be done in order to protect the members . 
and i have got to tell you , the members on your side of the aisle as well as my side of the aisle better think about this very seriously because we do want to protect the integrity of the institution . 
but , as important as that is , we also want to protect the rights of the members . 
mr. chairman , i urge defeat of this amendment . 
mr. chairman , today we are about to further our independence on foreign sources of energy . 
i fully support that effort and urge my colleagues to do so as well . 
however , one item of particular concern to me is the contamination of groundwater by mtbe -- a fuel additive that has been fully supported and promoted by this congress and our federal government . 
it is interesting to note that mtbe was first approved for use as a fuel additive by the environmental protection agency , epa , in 1979 . 
in 1988 , the epa approved the use of mtbe once again and significantly increased the amount of it that could be used in fuel . 
in 1990 , congress passed amendments to the clean air act which mandated a fuel oxygenate . 
in its regulations implementing those amendments , the epa once again approved mtbe for use as an additive in gasoline . 
these three instances show direct promotion by the congress and the federal government of the use of mtbe . 
it is important to point out that these actions , including the amendments to the clean air act , were vigorously supported by both parties in congress and many national environmental organizations which hailed mtbe as a great victory for clean air . 
while it 's true that mtbe is a great product for cleaner air , it unfortunately contaminates the water . 
in fact , my constituents in south lake tahoe have personal experience with this problem because in 1996 they discovered that their water supply had been contaminated by mtbe . 
consequently , 18 out of 34 wells in south lake tahoe were shut down or suffered limited pumping to contain the contamination . 
as a result , my constituents lost 3.4 million gallons of water a day . 
because i believe strongly that the federal government is responsible for mtbe contamination , i fought for and succeeded in getting the federal government to participate in the cleanup of mtbe from south lake tahoe water by authorizing and appropriating $ 1 million in the lake tahoe restoration act of 2000 , p.l . 
105-506 . 
that appropriation was just a drop in the bucket , however , as the total estimated cleanup of mtbe in south lake tahoe is just over $ 69 million . 
these funds will be used for a combination of treating contaminated sources and drilling new wells to replace the bad ones . 
the city of santa monica , ca , has also experienced the impacts of fowled water quality resulting from mtbe and recently settled its lawsuit for just over $ 325 million . 
mr. speaker , these are just two of many examples of the serious problems caused by the use of mtbe . 
in fact , to date , the legal fees , costs , and settlement for mtbe litigation in california is over $ 750 million alone . 
furthermore , the water industry estimates that full cleanup of mtbe contamination across the country will be over mr. chairman , mtbe contamination is a serious problem in california , and it is time for the federal government to admit that its overt promotion of mtbe is a major reason why we now find this additive in the water supplies of our communities . 
for this reason , i am an ardent supporter of expanding the leaking underground storage tank , lust , fund and am happy that chairman barton has agreed to increase the fund 's expenditures to over $ 2 billion over 5 years . 
the expanded lust fund will give local communities the necessary resources to identify cleanup needs and proceed with actual cleanup efforts . 
but more must be done in order to further protect communities like south lake tahoe . 
representative charlie bass has offered a proposal that would create a task force to seek a resolution to the mtbe cleanup issues in both new hampshire and california . 
i think this proposal is an important first step , and i encourage the house leadership to take a serious look at representative bass 's proposal and work towards a more comprehensive solution for mtbe contamination in our communities . 
in the end , mr. chairman , the federal government helped cause this problem and the federal government needs to help resolve it . 
the solution is not more litigation and lawsuits , but recognition that the federal government pushed mtbe on our communities , and now our communities need our help . 
mr. chairman , this is a vital bill for the future of our country , and this bill provides a very balanced approach to research in the scientific areas and to energy development and , indeed , renewable energy as well as vital water projects and infrastructure for this country to keep us economically sound . 
i would particularly like to commend the chairman and the staff in working with both sides here on this bill . 
it could do more if the resources were available ; but given that they are not , we are making the best , i think , of what we have . 
i would like to single out the energy supply and conservation account which funds renewable energy , energy efficiency , nuclear energy , nondefense environment , safety and health programs and energy conservation . 
these are funded at $ 1.7 billion . 
over $ 360 million is provided for hydrogen and fuel cell research . 
this funding supports and expands the president 's hydrogen initiative and promotes the freedom car project . 
hydrogen is the fuel source of the future and funding in this bill moves us closer to that goal . 
thirdly , the committee recommends $ 3.6 billion for the office of science , an increase of $ 203 million over the budget request . 
additional funds are provided for priority work on advanced scientific computing , high energy physics and operation of user facilities . 
lastly , office of science funding provides for the basic building blocks of science and is the gateway to future scientific breakthroughs . 
we must keep america 's scientific knowledge strong and on the cutting edge . 
advanced scientific computing allows the u.s. to keep up with the rest of the world . 
we can not allow other countries to surpass the u.s. 's knowledge . 
i commend the chairman and i urge the passage of the bill . 
mr. chairman , i would respectfully add my voice to those opposing this amendment . 
while clearly we all want to reduce our imports of foreign oil , i have not been convinced that raising cafe standards would actually accomplish this . 
as i understand it , our imports ' share of oil consumption was 35 percent in 1974 . 
since then , our new car fuel economy has roughly doubled , but our auto import share has risen nonetheless to about 50 percent . 
for this reason , i am not convinced that the amendment , if adopted , with achieve one of its primary goals . 
additionally , our national economy is struggling , to say the least . 
in my home state of pennsylvania , which is not normally thought of as a state closely tied to the automotive industry , a total of 220 , 800 jobs are dependent on the industry ; 39 , 700 of these people are directly employed by it , and when you add in other spin-off employment , we are talking about over 220 , 000 jobs in pennsylvania alone . 
mr. chairman , in these difficult economic times , i simply do not think it is prudent to put those jobs and this vital industry in jeopardy when it is not clear the benefits potentially derived would merit doing so . 
with the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 i urge defeat of the amendment . 
mr. speaker , i know that our colleagues , the gentleman from maryland ( mr. hoyer ) xz4001890 and the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay ) xz4001040 , will be engaged in a colloquy in just a moment ; and the announcement that i have will , i believe , relate to the colloquy that they are about to engage in . 
mr. speaker , the committee on rules may meet next week to grant a rule which could limit the amendment process for floor consideration of the energy policy act of 2005 , which is expected to be introduced monday , april 18 , as h.r. 6 . 
any member wishing to offer an amendment should submit 55 copies of the amendment , one written copy of a brief explanation of the amendment , and one electronic copy of the same to the committee on rules up in h-312 of the capitol by 12 noon on tuesday , april 19 , 2005 . 
members are advised that the combined text from the committees of jurisdiction should be available for their review on the committees ' web sites as well as on the committee on rules web site by tomorrow , friday , april 15 . 
members should use the office of legislative counsel to ensure that their amendments are drafted in the most appropriate format . 
members are also advised to talk with the office of the parliamentarian to be certain that their amendments comply with the rules of the house . 
mr. speaker , i would like to say , go nationals . 
i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i appreciate his managing this rule . 
mr. speaker , gasoline prices , gasoline prices , gasoline prices . 
that is what my constituents are talking to me about . 
and they do not need to talk to me about it . 
all i need to do is go and try to fill my car up myself , which i do , and i will tell the members that it is very clear that those prices have continued to increase . 
they are increasing , in large part , because of global demand and the fact that we have to do everything that we possibly can to ensure that we move in the direction of alternative sources of energy and making sure that we have access to obtain domestic energy self-sufficiency . 
we have a rule here which is a very fair and balanced rule . 
i wish we could have made a lot more amendments in order , but we made 30 amendments in order on this measure . 
in the 107th congress , we made 16 amendments in order ; in the 108th congress , 22 amendments made in order ; and now , in the 109th congress , 30 amendments made in order . 
twenty-two of those 30 amendments were offered by democrats . 
three of those 30 amendments made in order are bipartisan amendments , democrats and republicans joining together to offer amendments , and five of those 30 amendments are offered by republicans . 
i believe that we are going to allow for the debate to take place on a wide range of issues . 
i want to congratulate all of my colleagues and committee chairmen who have worked on this . 
the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 , the gentleman from california ( mr. thomas ) xz4004010 , the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 , and my good friend , the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo ) xz4003220 , who is here in the chamber . 
lots of people have worked to fashion this very , very important piece of legislation . 
it has been in the works for 6 years . 
we have been this close , this close to making it happen in the past , mr. speaker , and unfortunately , the fact that we have not been able to make it happen in the past has played a role in increasing the cost of gasoline , has played a role in ensuring that we have not been able to pursue alternative sources of energy , has played a role in making us more dependent on foreign sources of oil . 
so , mr. speaker , i will say that i believe that we now are on the verge of what will be another great bipartisan victory in this congress . 
i am very proud that democrats and republicans have come together in large numbers on both sides to pass bankruptcy reform legislation , class action reform legislation , our continuity of congress bill , permanent repeal of the death tax , and passage of the real i.d . 
border security act . 
all of these measures have passed with between 42 and 122 democrats joining with republicans to make sure they pass . 
tomorrow , we are going to pass out this measure , again with strong , bipartisan support , ensuring that we work together to get the work of the american people done . 
support this rule and support the passage of this very important legislation . 
madam chairman , at a time of record-high energy prices , the growth of the economy is at risk , and it is critical that congress take the necessary steps to put in place a comprehensive energy policy . 
the bill before us , frankly , is more limited in scope than i would prefer . 
it is not as ambitious as i would like in creating market incentives to overhaul the energy side of our economy ; but , nevertheless , support of this bill is a critical first step for congress to move forward to meet the critical goal of an effective national energy policy . 
its passage will set us on the right path by encouraging the creation of new technologies , by promoting renewable energy sources , by modernizing and expanding our energy infrastructure , including our power energy infrastructure , and encouraging conservation . 
i believe we need to move forward on this bill . 
it is long overdue and has been a priority of congress since this president came into office . 
the time has come for us to pass an energy bill . 
unfortunately , we have seen the vacancy of the debate today , the fact that we are not seeing an alternative being offered by the other side . 
we have heard about new ideas from them , but all we have been offered is warmed-over rhetoric , and there is no technology available to us that could ever make good use of that . 
please pass this legislation . 
it is long overdue . 
the time has come for us to put in place a national energy policy . 
mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for yielding me this time . 
we appreciate the chairman and the committee 's hard work on this bill . 
i want to specifically highlight the rose bay ecosystem project in florida 's 24th congressional district , which i represent . 
here local , county , and state agencies have worked for 10 years now and have spent more than $ 30 million to restore our natural aquatic ecosystem of rose bay . 
now this project has stalled , understandably , due to limited funds at a time of war . 
in the 1940s , rose bay was a productive estuary and shellfish harvesting area on the halifax river in volusia county . 
since the 1990s , local engineers and cities have anted up to their responsibility , and we would hope that the army corps of engineers would live up to the agreed-upon 5-point plan to restore rose bay . 
i would ask the chairman 's help , along with the committee 's , to do everything we can to get this project back on the appropriate steps forward . 
i yield to the gentleman from ohio . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for his comments . 
mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from ohio ( chairman hobson ) for his leadership in delivering a comprehensive and bipartisan appropriations bill to the floor today . 
he has taken the responsibility as chairman of the subcommittee very seriously . 
he has been to new jersey , to our home state . 
he has seen the channel deepening project , and he takes a real interest in the projects found in his bill , and i thank him very much for his leadership . 
on a more personal note , i also want to thank the chairman for supporting the green brook flood control project , which is in my district in new jersey . 
my constituents in new jersey thank him for his commitment to this project . 
i would also be remiss if i did not mention the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. frelinghuysen ) xz4001420 . 
for more than 5 years , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. frelinghuysen ) xz4001420 , as a member of the committee on appropriations , has been a champion for the green brook flood control project . 
he deserves significant credit for its success and the thanks of thousands of residents whose safety and livelihood in our area of new jersey are very much at stake with the success of this project . 
the gentleman from ohio ( chairman hobson ) and every member of the committee on appropriations has a considerable task and responsibility of prioritizing local projects . 
there are no easy decisions , particularly in a difficult and a tight budget year like this year . 
the green brook flood control project is saving homes and businesses and lives . 
it is equally vital that our senators from new jersey take up the fight for this important project and finish the work that we have begun here in the house . 
again i want to thank the gentleman from ohio ( chairman hobson ) , and i want to thank the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. frelinghuysen ) xz4001420 for their compassion and their vision and their leadership and commitment to this issue . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i rise in support of this amendment , which is very simple . 
we increase funding for research and development of hybrid vehicles . 
namely , the amendment would create a $ 3 billion program over the next 10 years to provide incentives for car manufacturers to dramatically increase their production of hybrid and advanced diesel vehicles , and for consumers as well , mr. chairman , to purchase those vehicles at a discount and get them on the road as quickly as possible . 
i would turn my attention , and i will be glad to yield at any time to the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 if he has a question . 
i would point my colleagues ' attention to two things . 
h.r. 6 makes every effort to address our dependence on foreign oil . 
however , 93 percent of the tax credits of the bill go to producers of traditional sources of energy , oil , gas and otherwise , compared to only about 6 percent for renewable sources of energy and energy efficiency . 
this small amount that would go towards the development of hybrid vehicles would allow us to do two or three things right away , mr. chairman : first , to increase our fuel standards without addressing some of the more controversial ways that came up on the floor yesterday involving cafe standards and increases there . 
it is known that a midsized hybrid suv gets 31 percent better gas mileage than its conventional counterpart . 
and the `` greener '' hybrids , mr. chairman , can increase fuel efficiency by 85 percent . 
a hybrid honda insight is rated at 61 miles per gallon in the city and 70 miles per gallon on the highway . 
a comparable traditional honda civic gets just 32 miles per gallon in the city and 37 miles per gallon on the highway . 
i need not explain to those in my home district of memphis who are paying an average of $ 2.15 cents a gallon that we need better fuel efficiency , not only for our pocketbooks and our wallets but also for our air and our environment . 
in addition , if indeed we were to travel this route and provide these incentives , mr. chairman , not only would we enjoy a net savings at the pump , but we would also enjoy a net increase in jobs estimated , according to the union of concerned scientists , by some 182 , 000 new jobs in the service , finance , insurance , manufacturing , and retail industries . 
the second point i would make before yielding is that there have been questions raised by those in the automotive industry regarding how would we define a company that manufactures or assembles vehicles , or a domestic manufacturer . 
i would be more than willing to work with those in conference , but my intent is clear . 
any company that manufactures or assembles vehicles in the united states would be covered under this amendment , meaning those at the nissan plant in smyrna , tennessee , and those at the saturn plant in spring hill , tennessee , would be covered and protected . 
last , mr. chairman , this bill also seeks to promote research and development of advanced diesel engines , which would help companies to develop the next generation of cleaner , more energy-efficient trucks . 
this means that companies like peterbilt and even averitt express in my home state of tennessee would benefit from the program as well . 
finally , the program would also assist companies like the largest employer in my district and state , fedex . 
for those of my colleagues who do not know , they are a little package delivery company in memphis , which plans to introduce 75 new hybrid diesel-electric trucks into service nationwide in the next 12 months . 
these trucks are being built by a consortium of companies , including the eaton corporation and freightliner . 
in closing , mr. chairman , this is a good solid amendment . 
it is one that has no partisan stripes , only an effort to help clean up the environment , find ways to reduce our dependence on foreign oil , and create good old american jobs here in this country . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the remaining time . 
i thank the chairman for his support and ask all of my colleagues in both parties to be supportive of it . 
just to point out one last thing , i appreciate the chairman pointing out that this authorizes the program , and forgive me for not making that point clear , as well as the fact that the epa will administer this program . 
finally , as my colleagues know , the budget measure that president bush proposed would grant about $ 7 billion , a little over $ 7 billion , in tax breaks ; and a good 70 percent of that would go towards energy efficiency and alternative sources of energy . 
i believe that this amendment advances that goal , not only for the president but , more importantly , for the country . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i rise in strong support of the energy and water appropriations bill . 
first , let me thank and commend chairman hobson and ranking member visclosky for their hard work in crafting a bill that addresses so many complex national energy and water infrastructure needs . 
they make a good team . 
our bill includes essential funding for energy programs that seek to make our country more efficient and less dependent on traditional fossil fuels and foreign oil . 
as a nation , we are facing an energy crisis which does not allow us to put off significant policy changes as to how we can invest our energy infrastructure dollars any longer . 
this year , we have made a significant investment in nuclear energy technology . 
this energy provides a clean , renewable energy source already capable of providing an alternative source of electricity to fossil fuels . 
nuclear energy already provides 20 percent of our nation 's electricity and , in my home state of new jersey , nearly 50 percent of the electrical capacity . 
i am also pleased that our subcommittee continues to fund fusion science . 
our committee has been a leader in advancing fusion so that some day we will be able to realize the promise of the cleanest of energy sources . 
thirty years ago the first power produced in a laboratory from fusion was barely enough to light a small light bulb . 
today , our doe labs are capable of creating enough power from fusion to light a small town . 
mr. chairman , i credit the gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson ) xz4001800 and the ranking member for grappling with some tough policy decisions in this bill . 
for example , yucca mountain , which is facing delays , this bill includes money , $ 660 million for yucca mountain , in anticipation of a licensing agreement being signed . 
this bill also prioritizes the army corps ' work on a number of essential navigation and flood control projects to ensure that such construction projects authorized by congress are actually completed . 
but most importantly to me and to the new york-new jersey region , in the army corps ' portfolio , this bill reflects our committee 's continued recognition of the value of our federal investment in the new york-new jersey harbor deepening project . 
this project has been recognized as one of five national priorities by the president . 
it is not only an issue of national security ; it is an issue of economic security . 
the economic return on keeping open our nation 's third largest port to larger container ships is huge . 
i note that the army corps itself has listed this deepening project as one of its highest return investments . 
i can not overstate the economic importance of the port which is the third largest in the united states . 
every day thousands of goods come through the port of new york and new jersey , and through its terminals many other goods are exported to the rest of the world . 
those goods and the assets that protect them allow our nation to proceed and keep its economy going . 
therefore , i rise in support of the bill and urge other members to do so as well . 
madam chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 6 . 
for too many years , madam chairman , our domestic energy policy has languished , driving investment overseas and increasing our reliance on foreign energy resources . 
yet , we continue the cycle of tolerating irresponsible energy policies , continuing to discourage investment in domestic energy production and , subsequently , becoming more dependent on foreign sources of energy . 
relying on foreign and , sometimes , hostile nations for energy and minerals jeopardizes our national security , madam chairman . 
and for the safety and security of our homeland , i want the united states to be reasonably self-sufficient in meeting the demands of our current energy consumption . 
h.r. 6 makes strides in ensuring our domestic security by streamlining the permitting process for renewable and traditional sources of energy , while protecting the integrity of the environmental review process . 
h.r. 6 also contains provisions to spur production of renewable energies such as geothermal so we can reduce our reliance on traditional sources . 
through this important legislation , we will have increased ability to utilize the vast renewable energy resources on our public lands in an environmentally responsible manner . 
i urge all of my colleagues to support the passage of this legislation that will allow us to capitalize on our nation 's energy exploration and development technology , commitment to environmental quality and conservation , and work ethic to develop our domestic energy resources . 
madam chairman , as i rise to the podium here , i want to bring up a poster which shows what this arctic national wildlife area really is . 
first of all , let me say that the arctic national wildlife refuge is 19.5 million acres of alaska , set aside in 1960 . 
also in 1960 , they set aside 1.5 million acres for exploration for oil . 
that is called the area 1002 part of anwr . 
this is area 1002 . 
this is the area we are going to be drilling on for oil and gas . 
as you can see , no big trees , no big mountains , no big herds of anything . 
it is just frozen tundra out there . 
but the 1002 area will continue to provide , as the usgs has already said , an estimated oil reservoir for this country that will equal the amount of oil we will get from saudi arabia for 30 years , madam chairman ; 10.4 billion barrels would make it the largest oil reserve find in the world since the nearby prudhoe bay discovery was done 30 years ago . 
madam chairman , the area 1002 is not a wilderness . 
it is part of anwr set aside 18 years ago for oil and gas exploration . 
this is where this 2 , 000-acre surface disturbance is going to take place . 
we are not talking about a pristine wilderness area that one would find in any of the southern 48 contiguous states that have forests . 
so with that , madam chairman , i just wanted to bring to the members ' attention that this is not the pristine wilderness that most people have in mind . 
this is a frozen tundra that we are going to disturb only 2 , 000 acres of it , and from there we are going to provide this country with nearly 10 billion barrels of new oil to meet the needs of this country 's energy demands . 
i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time and for his great work on this bill . 
mr. chairman , this country needs to create a new energy landscape that begins shrinking our disproportionate reliance on foreign energy sources and begins building one that places american ingenuity , producers and consumers at the forefront . 
i want to highlight one provision and that is the provision that significantly strengthens the important leaking underground storage tank program . 
the bill increases state funding from the lust trust fund for states containing a larger number of tanks or whose leaking tanks present a greater threat to groundwater , it requires onsite inspections of underground storage tanks every 3 years , it institutes operator training requirements for tank owners and operators , and the legislation allows states to stop deliveries of fuel to noncompliant regulated tanks in order to achieve legal enforcement . 
these are all strong recommendations not only made by the general accounting office , but they have also been previously passed by the house . 
they are proenvironment , antipolluter provisions . 
i urge their support and the support of the bill . 
mr. chairman , i rise to congratulate my good friend , the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 , the chairman of the committee on energy and commerce , for his leadership in forging a comprehensive , cohesive energy policy for our nation . 
i also applaud the chairman for his attempts to ensure a reliable , efficient , and affordable energy supply . 
we all can agree that a transparent energy market is essential to achieving the overall goals of this bill . 
i am concerned , however , mr. chairman , that the current language in title 12 , specifically section 1281 , weakens the protections afforded the sensitive and proprietary information used to determine energy prices . 
mr. chairman , i seek the assurance of the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 that he will work with me and concerned others on language that clarifies the commodity futures trading commission 's exclusive jurisdiction with respect to accounts , agreements , and transactions involving commodity futures and options . 
the cftc has a long history of sharing futures and options trading data with other federal and state regulators that agree to abide by the public disclosure restrictions found in section 8 of the commodity exchange act . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from texas . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
first i would like to thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 , chairman of the committee on science , and the gentlewoman from illinois ( mrs. biggert ) xz4000270 , chair of the subcommittee on energy , for their hard work and cooperation in developing the foundation of title ix , the r & amp ; d title of this bill . 
a stable domestic energy supply is essential to the economic well-being and security of our nation . 
while the bill on the floor today has provisions that are not acceptable to many democrats and republicans , there are good points worth mentioning in title ix . 
of particular note are the provisions ensuring greater doe cooperation with the smaller colleges and universities who will train our next generation of scientists , mathematicians , technicians and teachers . 
the department , as well as the traditional large research universities , could benefit from the enormous pool of talented researchers in the nation 's smaller colleges and universities , and i encourage greater collaboration . 
i would also like to highlight the work of several of our members on key components of doe research and development in title ix : the interest of the gentleman from california ( mr. honda ) xz4001850 in the progress of the next generation lighting initiative , the stanford linear accelerator and the joint genomics institute and his work with the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. larson ) xz4002330 on transit bus demonstrations of fuel cells ; the continued dedication of the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey ) xz4004360 and the gentleman from colorado ( mr. udall ) xz4004131 to clean , renewable and efficient energy technologies ; the work of the gentleman from illinois ( mr. costello ) xz4000820 to ensure that utilization of our vast coal resources only gets cleaner and more efficient ; the vision of the gentlewoman from california ( ms. zoe lofgren ) xz4002450 in support of domestic fusion energy research and international fusion projects ; the work of the gentleman from tennessee ( mr. davis ) xz4000971 to ensure good science continues at oak ridge national laboratory , particularly in the area of high-end computing ; the efforts of the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. miller ) xz4002781 to establish a nationwide network of advanced energy technology transfer centers to get technologies off the laboratory shelf and into the marketplace ; finally , the tireless commitment of the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee ) xz4001990 to research and development at historically black colleges and universities and other minority-serving institutions . 
the committee on science contributed virtually all of title ix , the research and development title of this bill . 
while research and development programs typically have not been controversial , i believe the title ix provisions represent a major part of this legislation . 
the r & amp ; d programs authorized in this bill will provide the means to produce energy that this country will need for the foreseeable future . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey ) xz4004360 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from california ( mr. honda ) xz4001850 . 
mr. chairman , i have no further requests for time , and i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to take back the balance of my time for the purpose of yielding time to the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee ) xz4001990 . 
madam chairman , i want to express my deep disappointment that the rules committee did not accept a bipartisan amendment authored by mr. stupak , myself , and other great lakes area members last night . 
this important amendment would have permanently banned oil and gas drilling in and under the great lakes . 
the current ban is set to expire in 2007 . 
i am proud to say that i have long been a proponent of banning oil and gas drilling on the great lakes and have voted to do so at every possible opportunity . 
the great lakes are home to the world 's largest supply of fresh water . 
in fact , the great lakes make up 95 percent of the united states ' fresh surface water . 
for those of us in the great lakes states , the great lakes represent a critical component of our environment , our economy and our identity . 
the risks drilling poses to the lakes are unacceptable . 
congress has a history in support of banning drilling on the great lakes . 
a ban was first approved in 2002 and has been extended twice since . 
however , the time has come to end the uncertainty surrounding drilling on the great lakes . 
a permanent ban should be put into place . 
while i am disappointed the rules committee has prevented the house from including a ban on drilling on the great lakes , i plan to work night and day with my colleagues to get a permanent ban approved -- either in conference or as a stand-alone piece of legislation . 
this is a fight i will not give up . 
mr. chairman , today congress took a significant step in establishing a comprehensive national energy plan to help lower gas prices and improve the reliability and accessibility of energy in wisconsin . 
this legislation contains language i strongly support to reduce the price spikes caused by `` boutique fuels '' and helps expand the domestic supply of oil and gas . 
this energy bill requires five billion gallons of renewable fuel to be included in all gasoline sold in the united states by 2015 . 
this increased use of ethanol will save 1.3 billion barrels of oil by 2016 while helping support our rural economy . 
our nation 's electricity grid will also see considerable improvement . 
the bill provides for enforceable mechanisms to ensure reliability and stop future blackouts . 
although i am generally pleased by the passage of the energy bill , it nevertheless contains some disappointing provisions , and i will be working expeditiously in the weeks to come to improve the bill even further . 
in particular , i plan to push for the inclusion of a ban on oil and gas drilling in the great lakes . 
the great lakes represent a critical and treasured part of our environment , our economy and our identity . 
the risks drilling poses to the lakes are unacceptable . 
i will also continue to lend my support to the effort to remove special liability protections for mtbe . 
we unfortunately came up short today to strip this mtbe language , but i 'll keep up the fight until this provision is removed . 
the manufacturers of mtbe should not be shielded from their responsibility to clean up contaminated groundwater . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
there was pressure to rush this bill out of the committee without a markup , but i am glad the committee made the right decision . 
we had a 3-day full committee markup where almost every imaginable energy issue was raised , from cow manure energy to ocean power . 
we even extended daylight savings time to save energy . 
overall , there are many beneficial provisions in this bill , such as resolving permit confusion , improving electric reliability , and mandating federal energy conservation . 
importantly , this bill provides incentives to clean coal technology , renewable energies like wind and solar ; and it also increases liheap funding authorization to $ 5 billion for this year . 
very quickly , i want to thank the chairman for inclusion of a number of provisions in the bill , such as the provision encouraging the siting on liquefied natural gas ( lng ) , which is important to energy security to cut into the rising natural gas prices that threaten our economy . 
the top concern of homeowners and manufacturers in our district are the high natural gas prices . 
if we keep offshore production limits , we have to have lng to import from other countries . 
we included some modern incentives for petroleum coke gasification so we can see what we can do with basically a byproduct , and important coal gasification incentives . 
energy diversity brings economy-wide benefits . 
i commend the authorization of a complex well-testing project at the rocky mountain oilfield testing center . 
the ability to tap more resources with fewer wells provides a public benefit for environmental protection . 
the bill contains a study on liheap reform . 
providing energy assistance to families in cold and hot weather is a public necessity , and i thank the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 and the gentleman from texas ( chairman barton ) for accepting two new amendments , one which would require the department of energy and the national cancer institute to conduct a health assessment of those living in proximity to petrochemical and refinery facilities . 
many of my constituents live and work near these facilities . 
the communities are concerned , and they deserve the most accurate health information about their community . 
there is a lot to be said about this bill . 
we have an energy bill for the first time in my 12 years in congress . 
madam chairman , i thank the chairman of the committee on resources for yielding me this time . 
this is a perennial amendment we have . 
this energy bill provides for production , conservation and research , but anwr is one of the most important production parts . 
granted we can not produce ourselves out of these high energy prices , but we have to produce in our own country if we ever expect to lower the prices . 
our nation needs more energy . 
our economy , consumers and workers bid against china , europe and india 's economies for every barrel of middle eastern , african and venezuelan oil . 
the congress so far has refused to open promising offshore areas to exploration , even as cuba , employing spanish and chinese energy companies , is drilling 60 miles from the florida keys , much closer than we allow american companies to do . 
no nation can produce energy more responsibly than ours . 
energy production is not like it used to be 50 , 25 or even 10 years ago . 
it is much cleaner and much more scrutinized . 
supporting only long-term solutions and conservation is important , but not enough . 
our cars get 25 percent of their gas from u.s. lands , but our children will see even less if we do not produce at home . 
two-thirds of the world 's oil reserves are in the middle east , controlled by opec . 
if they act as a cartel , they will control the world price of oil for the foreseeable future . 
if we allow domestic production to die out , conservation and research will not save us and we will have to pay a terrible economic price . 
if we allow production in anwr , we will see great benefits at a very low , temporary cost and see thousands of good-paying jobs created over the next 25 years . 
the caribou , bears , birds and other wildlife can thrive just as they have at prudhoe bay . 
tanker accidents will be prevented by new , double-hulled oil tankers and environmental impacts overall will be much less . 
drill sites are much smaller today and we use fewer wells with our new drilling technology . 
permanent gravel roads are no longer necessary if we use the winter ice road . 
the doom and gloom scenarios by opponents of anwr oil are inaccurate and not based on reality . 
i have been there many times , madam chairman , and i can tell you that we can produce it and the bears and the caribou will be in anwr just like they are in prudhoe bay . 
mr. chairman , i reluctantly rise in opposition because the gentlewoman from california ( ms. solis ) xz4003840 is a good member of our committee , and we work on lots of issues together . 
i represent a blue collar district . 
we have probably more refineries in the district i represent now than anyone else in the country and those are our jobs , are our tax base and what economic development we have , and they are blue collar jobs . 
they are minority jobs in our district . 
i am concerned , though , about what is happening in our country . 
we continually transfer our blue collar industrial capacity overseas . 
my concern is we are seeing the same thing happen whether it be with refineries or petrochemical plants just like we have seen with our textiles . 
it would not be very difficult to move a chemical plant to where they are still flaring natural gas or to have a refinery ship us refined product . 
that is why i think the provision of the bill is really good , and i think the amendment does a disservice maybe to our whole country because we need to expand our refining capacity , again , reopening those , make them get the permits , but also make sure that we keep those jobs in our country instead of moving overseas . 
mr. chairman , i guess this is a postponed vote on mtbe . 
it is an issue we have been dealing with , at least in the committee on energy and commerce , for a number of years . 
mtbe was mandated , maybe not specifically in the clean air act of 1990 , but reformulated gas was . 
and for an area like i have in houston , we have been using mtbe as a reformulated gas in our gas to clean up our air because it replaced the lead that we used to have because lead was polluting . 
and now we find out that mtbe does not smell or taste good and that is right . 
but whatever we have in our gas tanks is not something else we want to smell or taste , either . 
we may not be able to taste the benzene and everything else . 
but epa informed congress in 1990 that a reformulated oxygenate requirement would be met almost exclusively by mtbe , and congressional statements at the time reflect that knowledge . 
nowadays you can use ethanol , which comes a long way , or mtbe . 
it is true mtbe existed before the clean air act of 1990 . 
in fact , it was first approved by the epa in 1979 to comply with another federal gasoline mandate , in reducing lead . 
epa followed the legislative history of the clean air act and its scientific analysis and repeatedly reaffirmed approval for mtbe . 
the reason this bill has this provision in here is because we mandated reformulated gas in certain areas , including the district i represent . 
we have not had trouble with mtbe in groundwater or surface water pollution , at least in the houston area . 
i know some parts of the country have . 
the oxygenate requirement has done a great deal to clean up our smoggy urban air ; and to this day the epa will talk about the success of it , particularly in the houston area . 
mtbe is on the way out and being cleaned up around the country , regardless of the amount of litigation . 
tank owners , insurance and state funds are doing the real work , 96 percent of all cleanups according to the epa . 
a case in point , the city of santa monica is suing its former law firm over the $ 66 million legal bill for its trouble in suing over mtbe . 
i guess the concern i have is that mbte , if it is a defective product , we mandated it . 
and let me quote from some of the remarks earlier in the clean air act . 
we had members who are still sitting members of congress who were bragging about , we mandated the oil companies to be able to do stuff , for cleaning up our air ; and yet nowadays , 10 years later , 15 years later , we are going to say , no , they are responsible , even though we told them to do it , and it has been successful . 
my concern about the loss of mbte , we can not trade clean air for clean water ; we have to have both . 
and there is a way we can have both , but not by taking away the ability to have mbte , which is probably the most in use because it is the most efficient in reformulated gasoline . 
but , again , congress made a decision to deal with ethanol more than mbte , and that will happen . 
this bill allows for fixing the best by using the leaking underground storage tank fund , and that will go a long way to help us . 
mr. chairman , my colleagues supporting this amendment say we do not have a crisis . 
we do have a crisis . 
natural gas prices are triple what they should be . 
we are paying more to heat and cool our homes and also for our raw materials for our chemical industry and all of our industries , so we need to do something . 
the solution is to either drill more or import it , and lng is one of ways we can do it . 
we have a great safety record not only in our own country but worldwide in liquefied natural gas . 
and it is frustrating when you say you do not want to drill , you do not want to refine , and you do not even want to import . 
the only way you will get around then is by walking . 
in houston , we are too big to walk so we will have to have gasoline and we have to have something to cool our homes in the summer . 
the low natural gas supply is impacting our jobs and driving up electricity prices causing higher consumer prices . 
higher prices are leading to inflation and slow-down worries , which is why alan greenspan testified before our committee that the united states needs more lng . 
lng import terminals can be our interstate commerce . 
that is why we need to have a federal role , but the states will still have a very important role in this process . 
states will have influence over the kind and use of facility ; the existing and projected population of the local area ; the existing and proposed land use near the local area ; and the natural and physical aspects of the location . 
the bill creates new authority for states to inspect lng terminals for safety and security , beyond what they have in interstate natural gas projects . 
low natural gas supply is impacting jobs , driving up electricity prices , and causing higher consumer prices for a variety of goods and services . 
higher prices are leading to inflation and slowdown worries , which is why alan greenspan testified to our committee that the u.s. needs more lng . 
lng import terminals are engaged in both foreign and , in most cases , interstate commerce . 
lng is a matter of national or , at the very least , regional importance . 
approval and siting is properly done in the national interest consistent with the commerce clause of the constitution . 
the federal energy regulatory commission has sited interstate natural gas pipelines under the natural gas act since 1942 . 
states participate in the ferc 's national environmental policy act process , and have new authority in this bill to inspect for safety and security . 
states retain their authority to issue or deny permits under federal statutes such as the coastal zone management act and the clean water act . 
this bill takes away no state authority , as long as state permitting agencies issue timely decisions . 
let me repeat : state permitting authority remains in place under h.r. 6 . 
states can still deny lng facilities on their coasts . 
but they need a reason -- clean air act , clean water act , or the coastal zone management act . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from indiana for yielding me this time . 
i want to urge strong support for the fiscal year 2006 energy and water bill . 
this legislation provides investment in water infrastructure essential not only to our country but to the texas economy . 
i want to thank the gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson ) xz4001800 , the gentleman from indiana ( mr. visclosky ) xz4004170 and also the gentleman from texas ( mr. edwards ) xz4001180 for their assistance on these projects , particularly two flood projects , hunting and greens bayous in my district . 
thousands of my constituents ' homes and businesses are at risk from catastrophic flooding in these areas , and the funding in this bill , $ 500 , 000 and $ 150 , 000 each , keeps these projects on track . 
i would also like to express my strong support for the $ 26 million included for the houston ship channel deepening and widening project . 
this funding means we are on track to complete the deepening and widening this year and begin the barge lanes and environmental restoration . 
however , the tough operations and maintenance budget of the corps could have counterproductive effects . 
the houston ship channel budget is $ 5 million under capability for 2006 . 
if we can not maintain our channels to the right depth , then modern ships will not be able to take advantage of this new project . 
the project will also suffer as millions taken out through reprogramming are not returned as promised by the corps . 
the new policy to rein in reprogramming by requiring committee approval over $ 1 million is very sound . 
reprogramming goes against the letter , number and intent of congress . 
financial stability is essential and large investments are made on the basis of congressional appropriations . 
more market risk equals higher cost for all the projects . 
we should note a few brief points about projects that have been lost to reprogramming in the past and need to be made whole . 
it seems unjust that the solution to restore the letter and spirit of the law falls on the backs of the most recent victims of reprogramming such as our houston ship channel who had reprogrammed dollars not returned . 
mr. chairman , i include for printing in the record written commitments from the corps under two administrations . 
the word and spirit of these commitments are to honor congressional appropriations law . 
congressional and corps promises deserve to be honored . 
that is the same principle behind the extremely wise reprogramming policy of the future in this bill . 
however , we should allow the corps to fulfill its past commitments . 
again , i would like to thank the chair and the ranking member of the subcommittee and the full committee for making this bill possible . 
department of the army , southwestern division , corps of engineers , dallas , tx , september 18 , 2001 . 
dear mr . 
green : thank you for your letter dated august 29 , 2001 , concerning the houston-galveston navigation channels , texas project . 
i regret that members of my staff were not able to meet with you on september 12 , 2001 , to discuss this project in more detail . 
based on conversations with your office and mr. william dawson of my staff , the following information will address your primary concern . 
the u.s. army corps of engineers remains fully committed to completion of this project based on the optimal construction schedule . 
i can further assure you that we will reprogram up to $ 20 million in construction funds as required to this project to ensure that this schedule is maintained irrespective of any shortfall in the fiscal year 2002 congressional appropriation . 
i continue to appreciate your patience and willingness to work with us on this matter . 
please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any further questions about the houston-galveston navigation channels project . 
sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; david f. melcher , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; brigadier general , u.s. army commanding general . 
& lt ; /em & gt ; congress of the united states , washington , dc , august 29 , 2001 . 
dear general melcher : i am writing you today with my concerns about the fy 2002 army corps of engineers ( corps ) allocation for the houston-galveston navigation channel . 
this project , funded by the corps at $ 28.785 million , realistically requires $ 46.8 million to keep it on an optimal construction schedule . 
over the past several years , funding totaling at least $ 20 million has been reprogrammed from this project to other corps projects . 
given the discrepancy between the fy 02 corps budget and the amount of funding required to keep this project on schedule , i am requesting that the corps return the full amount of reprogrammed money to this project in its fy 02 budget . 
i have enclosed correspondence from the corps that my office received at the time when these funds were reprogrammed for your review . 
i would also like to request a meeting with you in my washington , dc office , along with congressman chet edwards , during the second week in september to discuss this issue . 
if you have any questions on this matter , please contact bob turney in my washington office at ( 202 ) 225-1688 . 
thank you for your prompt attention to this request . 
sincerely , gene green , department of the army , southwestern division , corps of engineers , dallas , tx , march 11 , 1999 . 
dear congressman green : this letter is in response to your concerns regarding the proposed reprogramming of funds from the houston-galveston navigation channels , texas project . 
i am aware of , and fully appreciate the importance of the houston-galveston navigation channels project to the economy of this region and the nation . 
the corps of engineers , southwestern division , is fully committed to completion of the project based on the most optimal construction schedule . 
i have made the recommendation to reprogram funds from this project only after being personally convinced that the project schedule can not be advanced beyond what has currently been scheduled to be accomplished this fiscal year . 
based on this analysis , i have determined that these funds are truly excess to this year 's project needs . 
the proposed reprogramming is to be a temporary reallocation of funds to maximize their use . 
they will be restored to the project when they are required to ensure that we will maintain the optimal construction schedule . 
i am providing an identical letter to the honorable chet edwards , honorable nick lampson , and the honorable ken bentsen . 
thank you for your involvement in the development of the water resources infrastructure within the state of texas . 
if i can be of assistance on any other matter , please feel free to contact me . 
sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; edwin j. arnold , jr. , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; brigadier general , u.s. army commanding general & lt ; /em & gt ; congress of the united states , washington , dc , february 26 , 1999 . 
dear mr . 
loew : for two consecutive years , the congress appropriated sufficient funds in the energy and water development appropriations bill to permit the completion of the navigational features of the houston ship channel project in four years . 
maintaining this optimal construction schedule is a priority for us because it will add an additional $ 281 million to the project 's return on investment and save taxpayers $ 63.5 million in increased escalation and investment costs . 
we appreciate the efforts you have made to fully inform us about the need to reprogram $ 2.2 million to the giww-aransas national wildlife refuge project , as well as your understanding of our concerns . 
in the spirit of cooperation , we and the houston port authority are willing to support the corps request to reprogram funds from the houston-galveston navigation project . 
however , we would first ask to receive assurance in writing that the corps will reprogram other funds to the houston project to replace those lost . 
further , our understanding is that funds will be reprogrammed back to the houston ship channel project by fy 2001 . 
in addition , if the dredging project suddenly moves ahead of schedule , the corps must do everything possible to ensure that a delay does not occur . 
we look forward to your prompt response . 
sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; gene green , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress . 
& lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; chet edwards , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress . 
& lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; ken bentsen , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; nick lampson , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress. & lt ; /em & gt ; mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from dallas for his very capable handling of this rule . 
we have to have this rule . 
this rule spawns h.r. 6 , and i feel very strongly that the time has come and gone several times for congress to pass a comprehensive energy bill . 
there is not any better time to do it than today , but from this very next vote we are going to vote to give the president a bill to sign into law . 
this rule makes that possible . 
i do not know about the rest of my colleagues , i am not positive about them , but i have been receiving a lot of phone calls from my constituents expressing their concern about the high cost of the gasoline . 
according to the department of energy , the energy information administration , a gallon of gasoline has gone up 42 cents from this very time last year , a year ago . 
this is real money and that adds up . 
and i , for one , would like to see us be able to go home this weekend and tell our constituents that we are one step closer to a little relief , and i can not do that without this rule . 
while h.r. 6 is not going to give us $ 1 a gallon gas the moment this is passed into law , it is a very important first step toward bringing down the price of gasoline by allowing the production of more domestic oil and by fostering greater conservation of energy , thus increasing supply and lowering demand . 
gas prices are high now in part because we have had no comprehensive national energy policy for the past few decades . 
we can not afford to watch another 10 years go by without acting . 
we need this rule today . 
we can not let our country to get into a situation where we are absolutely dependent on foreign sources of oil ; without this rule we are dependent . 
we are already certainly currently today dependent on foreign sources for 62 percent of our nation 's supply . 
by 2010 , that percentage is projected to grow to 75 percent . 
this is unacceptable . 
h.r. 6 will decrease our country 's dependence on foreign oil by increasing domestic gas and oil exploration and development on nonpark federal lands . 
i am particularly pleased about the inclusion of language to open part of anwr . 
this rule makes this possible . 
according to the energy department , this coastal plain is the largest unexplored , potentially onshore basin in the united states . 
the u.s. geological survey estimates that there are $ 16 billion barrels of recoverable oil there . 
now hear this : this is enough oil to offset all saudi imports for the next 30 years . 
even better , oil could be developed in anwr as soon as 3 years from the first lease sale , and none of it would be available for export . 
it would all be used at home . 
of equal importance to me in this bill is my provision on ultra-deepwater and unconventional onshore natural gas . 
the program created by this legislation will foster the development of new technologies to increase domestic natural gas and oil production , increase domestic oil supplies , and pay for itself through increased royalties , amongst other benefits . 
according to an analysis by the energy information administration , this program will increase production of natural gas by 3.8 trillion cubic feet and oil by 850 million barrels , increase federal royalties in more than sufficient amounts to pay for the effort , and lower the price of both fuels , but not without this bill . 
an analysis by the bureau of economic geology at the university of texas says this will come back to us , five to one . 
it is time to save this generation of youngsters and help them be able to say what university am i going to enter rather than what branch of service am i going to have to enter to get energy , when we have plenty here at home if we could mine it . 
this is a good bill and a good rule , a bill that has been worked on and debated for five years . 
its purpose is to promote conservation , reduce our dependence on foreign oil , improve our economy and create new jobs and probably keep our young men and women from having to fight a war for energy when we have enough energy at home if we pass this bill . 
i 'm proud to support it and i urge my colleagues to do the same by voting yes on this rule . 
madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
madam chairman , i offer a manager 's amendment which sets forth clearly all of the changes we are proposing to make in our comprehensive energy bill . 
we have listed all of the changes , rather than offer a substitute , so all members know which provisions we are changing . 
our summary clearly explains these changes . 
madam chairman , this amendment makes some technical changes , adds a few provisions which were part of the h.r. 6 conference report from last congress , and clarifies some of the provisions contained in this year 's bill . 
none of these provisions should be controversial . 
we make technical changes in the ceiling fan efficiency standards . 
we clarify references to the firearm laws in the nuclear security provision , which had referred to a law no longer in existence . 
we clarified the tax status of the consortium under the ultradeep program . 
and we made clear the puhca provisions would not impair ferc 's or state commissions ' ability to enforce provisions and that companies still must comply with existing orders during the period repeal becomes effective . 
we clarify dates in the nas mtbe study , rulemaking and appropriation authorization dates for the lust program , and clarified the bump-up dates . 
we allowed our clean air coal projects to be eligible to power plants of 600 mw or less . 
we made technical changes to the boutique fuels studies and our reference to the soybean oil within the edible oil act . 
we have also included the on road and off-road diesel rules in the fuel harmonization study . 
we also clarified that ferc would have a role to play with the regional boards we established to set guidelines for efficient , economic dispatch of electric power . 
madam chairman , we again try to cap the energy savings performance contracts at $ 500 million . 
we disagree these provisions should score . 
like many , we have voiced our opposition to this score , but we are concerned about the cost of the bill , so we are trying again to cap its cost . 
we also tried to avoid a $ 64 million score on our employee benefits amendment we adopted in committee . 
some of our other changes include clarifying that the 3-year time period in which the federal government must establish energy efficiency standards on certain products be prospective only . 
like we did in the bill of the last congress , we moved the photovoltaic program from doe to gsa . 
we added back into the bill some of the provisions contained in our h.r. 6 conference report of the last congress . 
several were in the research and development title and include the western michigan demonstration project , the western hemisphere energy cooperation project , the arctic engineering research center , and the barrow geophysical research facility . 
madam chairman , most importantly , we reinserted the natural gas market reform provision from the last congress to ensure enron trading practices of the past are not repeated . 
we had to drop this provision because the parliamentarians thought it could be subject to a point of order in our committee , so we are putting it back in now . 
we have also added the aircraft idling study , the engine idling program , and the hydrogen fuel bus program . 
if any member has any concerns about these provisions , i look forward to working with you through conference . 
we have added some noncontroversial amendments through the affordable housing energy efficiency provisions . 
the other amendments are purely technical in nature , such as removing duplicative provisions passed by other committees . 
finally , madam chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo ) xz4003220 , chairman of the committee on resources ; the gentleman from california ( mr. thomas ) xz4004010 , chairman of the committee on ways and means ; the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 , chairman of the committee on science ; the gentleman from virginia ( mr. tom davis ) , chairman of the committee on government reform ; the gentleman from alaska ( mr. young ) xz4004401 , chairman of the committee on transportation and infrastructure , and their staffs , for helping us put together this manager 's amendment ; and i ask for its adoption . 
madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 . 
mr. chairman , i move that the committee do now rise . 
the motion was agreed to . 
accordingly , the committee rose ; and the speaker pro tempore ( mr. lahood ) xz4002280 having assumed the chair , mr. simpson , acting chairman of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union , reported that that committee , having had under consideration the bill ( h.r. 6 ) to ensure jobs for our future with secure , affordable , and reliable energy , had come to no resolution thereon . 
madam speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from tennessee ( mrs. blackburn ) xz4000320 . 
i think this week and this day and tomorrow are probably two of the most important days to the youth of our country because we are discussing an energy bill , an energy bill that might just lay out what their future might be . 
if i had a youngster who was a sophomore in high school , a junior or maybe a senior , i would be very concerned about their future if we do not solve our energy problems . 
today and tomorrow i think the most important bill that is going to come before this congress is going to be decided , and i think we are going to pass it . 
we are going to send it over to the senate . 
we are going to go to work on the senate to try to get those two votes that we have not been able to get in 4 years over there , 4 years . 
we have to make this out as a generational bill because we are talking about a generation of youngsters that might have to all go overseas to fight a war to bring us some energy here . 
it is a shame if they have to do that when we have plenty of energy right here at home . 
i know that back in the early days , and i go back to history sometimes , if you look at the past and see that we should not make the mistakes of the past ; but sometimes they light a light for us to see what happened and see what caused it to happen . 
back in the 1940s , back in the late 1930s , we had a president named franklin delano roosevelt . 
he made a lot of great speeches . 
one of the great speeches he made was about fear , about the great depression . 
he said , `` the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. '' and he led us out of that depression . 
but one of the other speeches that he made that scholars have noted and many people have listened to and many have used it as a part of their thrust in their discussion , he said , `` to some generations much is given , of some generations much is expected , but this generation has a rendezvous with destiny. '' that rendezvous with destiny turned out to be world war ii . 
as we listened on our philco radios , we heard him make these speeches . 
he spoke those words . 
he spoke those words following the action of cordell hull , who was secretary of state then ; henry stimson , secretary of war . 
they had both cut japan off from energy . 
we supplied them their entire energy thrust and they depended on us for it . 
when we cut them off , we should have known that they had to break out and go somewhere . 
they had to go south into malaysia . 
they had to have energy because the country of japan , who did not hate this country , admiral perry had opened them up to trade earlier , but they were forced to go south into malaysia or do something because they had to have energy . 
that was an energy war ; there is no question about it . 
i think , as they did when they cut that off with japan , having 13 months ' national existence , war was inevitable and that was an energy war . 
sometime later the fuehrer , adolf hitler , went into the ploesti oil fields . 
he went east into the ploesti oil fields . 
their tanks and their airplanes were out of fuel . 
they had to go east . 
that was a battle for energy . 
energy caused that action . 
then george bush , the father of our present president , just some 10 or 11 years ago sent 450 , 000 youngsters over to the desert in iraq . 
that was a war for energy . 
not because we did not like the emir of kuwait or we wanted to help him for some reason . 
it was a war to keep a bad guy named saddam hussein , who is now in a cage , from getting his foot on half the known energy sources in the entire world . 
nations will fight for energy ; there is no question about that . 
but we do not have to because we can solve our own problems . 
with this bill , h.r. 6 , we can prevent a war . 
we can drill on anwr . 
we can drill up to the depths of the gulf . 
we can go down 5- or 6 , 000 feet or 10 , 000 feet but we can not get it back up . 
but with technology we can do that . 
that is provided for in this bill . 
we certainly can have energy if we pass this bill . 
and then our youngsters can say with a great bit of courage and great bit of hope in their voice , what school am i going to attend , rather than what branch of service am i going to have to enter . 
this country will fight for energy . 
we do not have to . 
this congress has to fight for h.r. 6 . 
we have to pass h.r. 6 , and if we do that , our youngsters will not have to fight that war that the past has indicated could happen . 
mr. chairman , like so many times when i stand up here , i am very fond of the author of the amendment , but i do not like the amendment . 
the name of udall is almost a sacred name in the west . 
the salient part of this bill , i think of this entire bill , that the gentleman from texas ( chairman barton ) has brought to us and we have passed through committee and subcommittee , is that it covers waterfront , and that means that we need all energy sources . 
this is just another of the sources that we pool together . 
i think assuring reliable , economical , and environmentally sensitive domestic uranium mining industry is essential to be a part of this bill and to carry out and make the fullness of the bill . 
as the gentleman from texas ( chairman barton ) pointed out , section 631 of the bill reported by the house committee on energy and commerce , i do not know how many votes were against it , but the committee authorizes a modest research and development program ; it is $ 10 million a year over a 3-year period . 
i think they have allocated the money out according to the good it will do . 
this program would be cost-shared , and it is consistent with far larger programs for other electricity generation . 
it makes no sense to eliminate this important funding and forego opportunities for this . 
for all of these reasons , i oppose the udall amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of the amendment . 
mr. chairman , on the blumenauer amendment , i rise to say that we will accept the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to speak for 5 minutes in support of the amendment . 
mr. chairman , we are in favor of the amendment , of course , and i just want to point out that the davis-waxman amendment strikes section 978 , which i will have the opportunity maybe at a later time to go into in more depth , but it strikes out `` improved coordination and management of civilian science and technology programs '' which would create two new senate-confirmed assistant secretary positions within the department of energy , increasing the total number of senate-confirmed assistant secretaries in the department to eight . 
the proposed positions include one for science and one for nuclear energy . 
now , some of the talking points for this are , among others , there are a good many reasons to talk for this department . 
the department has significant management challenges . 
it is not the solution to add two more senate-confirmed assistant secretaries to further bog down the situation . 
the davis-waxman amendment appropriately recognizes we do not need more senate-confirmed assistant secretaries . 
mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to claim the time in opposition to the amendment , though i will speak in favor of the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i seek the time in opposition to the amendment ; and i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from california ( mr. radanovich ) xz4003300 . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , as my colleague said a moment ago , this amendment is laudable , and i admire the gentleman for pushing it ; but i have to say that , in reality , it is really special treatment for one company , with one facility , in one state . 
pure energy corporation is the only company i know of in the united states to have a patent for technology that can convert urban waste into a doe-recognized fuel called a p-series fuel . 
this amendment would grant enormous latitude for the application for this one technology to benefit this one company , and it is really not a matter of national policy . 
further , the company in question also receives funding and grants from the doe in support of this technology . 
this is the type of action that government agencies are designed and delegated to do , to spot promising technologies and financially assist their development , and they are doing that . 
government agencies are a lot better suited to determine the value of burgeoning technologies in their respective fields than congress would be , and we should leave these decisions to the experts . 
i might go on further and say that this amendment essentially provides for the expansion of national policy for the benefit of one type of fuel , the p-series fuel , and the one technology that can produce it . 
the production quantities of the fuel are so minimal that it is unlikely to have any part of an impact on a national scale . 
and , finally , there are only two vehicle manufacturers that currently produce flexible fuel vehicles that have engines that are compatible to this type of fuel . 
the consumer market for this product is extremely limited . 
with high gas prices , this type of fuel is not cost competitive and is even more expensive than regular fuel . 
for this reason it does not please me to oppose a member of congress who is supporting his own and goes that extra mile for his constituents that he represents , but i have to point out that actually this will not have an impact on a national scale and is not a matter of national policy . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
the amendment itself is brief . 
it is titled consolidation of the gasoline industry , and says , `` the comptroller general of the united states shall conduct a study of the consolidation of the refiners , importers , producers , and wholesalers of gasoline with the sellers of such gasoline at retail . 
the study shall include an analysis of the impact of such consolidation on : the retail price of gasoline ; small business ownership ; other corollary effects on the market economy of fuel distribution ; local communities ; and other market impacts of such consolidation. '' then at the very end it says , `` the comptroller general shall submit such study to the congress not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this act. '' it could delay it as much as a year . 
the hard , cold facts about this amendment are that the gao released studies in july 2004 that were titled , `` mergers and other factors that affect the u.s. refining industry , '' which attempted to discover the cause behind higher gasoline prices . 
this amendment essentially commissions the gao to create a report that was already released last year . 
so there is real need for it . 
there have been many criticisms of the gao report because of its inadequate methodology and faulty assumptions . 
these critiques arose from the federal trade commission , a government agency that has been studying and tracking gasoline price volatility as a result of mergers or anticompetitive behavior . 
they found the gao study to be fundamentally flawed and the results as suspect . 
gao has already tried to wade through these issues of gasoline prices and wade through the issues of wholesale markets , and they have shown it does not have the expertise nor the breadth and depth of knowledge needed to properly analyze this subject . 
the amendment would be commissioning a futile study and is a waste of time and resources . 
i urge a `` no '' vote on this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , will the gentlewoman yield ? 
that is our understanding , mr. chairman . 
mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to take the time in opposition , though we do not oppose the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to claim the time in opposition , though we do not have opposition to the amendment . 
madam chairman , i thank the chairman and my colleagues on the committee for moving forward such an excellent package as part of the energy bill . 
i think many of us have spent the last several years hoping that we would get an energy bill passed . 
there are a number of reasons why ; in my district , clearly one of the most important is simply the cost of energy , whether it is home heat , whether it is the cost to manufacturers which is costing us jobs . 
we need to move forward with this energy bill . 
my district is home to a number of manufacturers . 
i have met with many of them since the beginning of the year when we were hoping that we would get the energy bill moving . 
what they have asked for us is to help them with their higher overhead , ultimately helping them with their competitiveness , helping jobs to remain in our district . 
obviously , these companies ' employees are much more susceptible to layoffs without the energy bill . 
i am also hearing from home owners , many of the elderly in my district with older homes , who need some help , some incentives to improve their homes , some tax assistance so they will have more energy-efficient homes , to those who are building new homes , more incentives . 
the bill also addresses our aging electric transmission system . 
many of our transmission system lines were built 30 to 50 years ago , and it is estimated by 2015 electricity consumption will increase by 28 percent . 
we need to repair and rebuild the 160 , 000 miles of electrical transmission lines . 
this bill will reduce the time for depreciation recovery and improve the opportunity for those companies to update those lines , helping in efficiency , helping in opportunity to have cheaper energy . 
it is important also that we encourage new kinds of fuel . 
especially important are fuel cells and , in fact , providing new jobs and better technology . 
fuel cell technology in the united states is growing . 
the use of it is growing and , in fact , jobs in that field are growing . 
i think it is important that this bill provide a 15 percent tax credit for business installation of fuel cell power plants and residential fuel cell investments . 
this is a great technology . 
it is one that has been utilized in other parts of the world to a further extent than it has been utilized in the united states . 
the help in this bill will encourage further use of fuel cells . 
this bill makes changes of the tax code that will speed the development of newer and cleaner production of energy . 
it will help curb energy costs . 
it will help move our economy forward . 
i urge my colleagues to support this bill , and i especially commend my colleagues on the committee on ways and means for the tax provisions . 
mr. chairman , american consumers are being hit hard at the gas pump right now . 
the legislation we have on the floor today will go a long way towards giving our nation the sound , comprehensive energy policy that our citizens need and deserve . 
our nation is too dependent on a fickle foreign oil market that is being stretched to the limit by global demands . 
the evidence can be seen at gas stations across the united states . 
recently , the national average price of gasoline hit an all-time high of $ 2.28 a gallon . 
oil prices , at one point , jumped to almost $ 58 a barrel . 
analyst forecast a higher spike to $ 60 soon . 
in some parts of the country , like the west coast , gas has jumped to more than $ 2.50 for a gallon of unleaded . 
the house has passed energy legislation three times . 
each time it has been blocked for partisan gamesmanship . 
meanwhile , families are finding it more expensive to plan a family vacation or even drive their kids to little league practice . 
many of our small business owners , like florists , truck drivers and pizza delivery companies , are struggling to make ends meet . 
this is unacceptable . 
america is in the midst of an energy crisis that threatens our national and economic security . 
the house legislation does a number of things to address the crisis . 
it reduces our dependence on foreign oil by expanding domestic supplies and allowing oil and gas exploration right here in the united states . 
incentives are provided for the energy industry to increase refining capacity for gasoline , diesel fuel , home heating oil and jet fuel . 
and , this legislation makes a significant venture into the use of renewable fuels like ethanol and biodiesel -- environmentally safe alternatives that can be found in the corn , soybean and sugarcane fields right here in the united states . 
under this legislation , our citizens would have access to more fuel efficient cars . 
it launches a state-of-the-art program to have emission-free hydrogen fuel cell vehicles on the road by the year 2020 . 
and , it provides grants to state and local governments to acquire alternative fueled vehicles , hybrids and ultra-low sulfur vehicles . 
there 's also a positive economic aspect to the bill . 
it would create nearly half a million jobs in the manufacturing , construction , agriculture and technology sectors . 
house republicans have produced a bill that is environmentally friendly yet comprehensive , sound and balanced . 
more importantly , it eases america 's dependence on an unpredictable foreign market . 
this legislation provides a clear path towards the more efficient , reliable and affordable energy policy that our citizens deserve . 
i urge the obstructionists to put partisan politics aside for the good of the american people and support this legislation . 
madam chairman , earlier this year i reintroduced the residential solar energy tax credit act , which would provide a 15 percent tax credit for the purchase of solar water heating systems and photovoltaic systems to be installed in residential settings . 
the maximum amount of this credit is $ 2 , 000 and the credit can not apply to solar energy systems used to heat swimming pools . 
i am pleased this provision has been included in the tax title to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
the solar energy industry in our nation has been growing at a clip of 25 percent per year for the past several years , yet u.s. manufacturers export 75 percent of their products because of the higher up-front costs of solar energy systems as compared to other energy sources . 
purchasing a solar energy system is like buying a car and prepaying for all the gas it would ever need . 
this makes consumers understandably hesitant despite the environmental and other gains associated with solar energy . 
national polls consistently find that over 85 percent of americans want greater support for solar power , and solar power can play a role in our energy mix from coast to coast . 
it is my belief that the residential solar tax credit will help advance this important form of renewable energy . 
and in stark contrast to the protestations of my friends on the left , we are willing to embrace these technologies . 
it is proven by this solar energy tax credit . 
i thank the chairman for its inclusion . 
i urge support of the legislation . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , it is my pleasure to submit to the house for its consideration h.r. 2419 , the energy and water development appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 . 
the committee on appropriations approved this bill unanimously on may 18 , and i believe it is a good bill that merits the support of the entire house . 
mr. chairman , this bill provides annual funding for a wide range of federal programs including such diverse matters as flood control , navigation improvements , environmental restoration , nuclear waste disposal , advanced scientific research , applied energy research , maintenance of our nuclear stockpile , and nuclear non-proliferation . 
total funding for energy and water development in fiscal year 2006 is $ 29 , 746 , 000 , 000 . 
this funding amount represent a decrease of $ 728 , 000 below the budget request and $ 86.3 million below the current fiscal year . 
this bill is right at our subcommittee 's 302 ( b ) allocation and provides adequate funds to meet the priority needs of the house . 
title i of the bill provides for the civil works program of the army corps of engineers ; the formally utilized sites remedial action program , which is executed by the corps ; and the office of the assistant secretary of the army for civil works . 
the committee recommends a total of $ 4.746 billion for title i activities , $ 294 million below the current year and $ 414 million above the current budget request . 
i want to explain a couple of things about the corps as we go through this and take a little time on this because some of this is a change . 
for a number of years , the corps civil works program has been oversubscribed where congress kept giving the corps more and more projects to do but not enough money to do them . 
we took steps last year to put the corps on the road to fiscal recovery by eliminating the number of new starts and concentrating resources on the completion of ongoing construction projects . 
we also asked omb to adopt a new approach to future corps budget requests so that we can use our limited resources to complete the most valuable projects efficiently , instead of spreading those resources very widely to make incremental progress across a large number of projects . 
the fiscal year 2006 budget request adopts such a performance-based approach for the corps budget . 
proposing to use the ratio of remaining costs to remaining benefits is the primary determinant of which construction projects should receive priority consideration for funding . 
while this ratio may not be a perfect measure of merit of all the projects , the budget request represents good faith from the omb to concentrate the corps ' limited resources on finishing the most worthwhile projects that are already under construction . 
until we begin to clear out the enormous backlog of ongoing work , we are reluctant to start new projects ; therefore , we did not include any new starts again this year in this bill . 
one consequence of adopting this new performance-based approach to the corps is that the funds available for member adds for corps projects are very limited this year . 
in part , this is because for the first time in years we received a budget request in which many congressional priorities are already at the funded level . 
i think this is an improvement . 
however , even with that request as a good starting point , the total amount that we can provide for the corps is less than what the house passed in fiscal year 2005 . 
with a healthy base request and a lean 302 ( b ) allocation , we did not add as much for member projects as we have in previous years . 
we were harsh , but fair , in how we dealt with these member projects . 
our fiscal year 2006 energy and water bill makes major strides to improving the corps ' project execution reprogrammings and continuing contracts . 
for a workload of approximately 2 , 000 projects , the chief of engineers recently told me that the corps had 2 , 000 projects , but they had 20 , 000 reprogrammings . 
we think this is not good management , and we have done a lot in our bill to try to focus the corps on these continuing contracts . 
the problem is that the corps has done a lot of reprogrammings . 
they have moved funds around . 
we believe this is a case management problem . 
we have taken extensive efforts to try to reform this program because we think that they may not have the money to restore what they should , and if there is a big plume in all of this , that they can not really tell us what it is all about . 
another area that we have a problem with is in the continuing-contract area . 
some people would like to get rid of continuing contracts . 
i do not happen to believe that . 
i think it is a tool that they need , but we need to make sure that they are not using them to excess and they are not using them to do things that either the administration did not want to fund , we did not want to fund , or the senate did not want to fund ; and that this money is not being shifted around or execution is being done that would inhibit our ability in future years to fund programs by the original funding by the corps . 
the department of energy received a total of $ 24.318 billion in the energy and water bill . 
that is an increase of $ 105 million over the budget request , about $ 101 million less than the fiscal year 2005 level . 
as with the corps , we asked the department of energy to begin preparing 5-year budget plans , first for individual programs and then an integrated plan for the department . 
i think this is just good money management within these departments . 
we need 5-year plans . 
we actually need longer visions in these programs so that we know what we are going to end up with in the waterways in the future and we know what the department of energy 's plans are in the future . 
the committee has several important new initiatives for the department of energy . 
doe presently has significant quantities of weapons-usable special nuclear materials , plutonium and highly enriched uranium , scattered around its complexes . 
unfortunately , even with the heightened attention to homeland security after the 9/11 attacks , the department has done little to consolidate these high-risk materials . 
we have provided additional funds for material consolidation initiative and direct doe to take aggressive action to consolidate its weapons-usable uranium and plutonium into fewer , more secure sites . 
we think this is not only a security problem , but it costs us a lot of money and we think we can do better . 
we also propose a spent fuel recycling initiative to stimulate some fresh thinking on how this country deals with its spent nuclear fuel . 
i want to state that i fully support the yucca mountain repository , and our bill fully funds the request for yucca mountain in fiscal year 2006 . 
it is critical that we get yucca mountain done and done right and done soon . 
however , we continue to be frustrated by the delays in getting the repository open , and we are concerned about what will happen after that first repository is built . 
the department of energy estimates that each year of delay on yucca mountain costs the government an additional billion dollars , half from the legal liability for doe 's failure to begin accepting commercial spent fuel beginning in 1988 , as required by the law , and the other half from the costs . 
in addition , the authorized capacity of yucca mountain will be fully utilized by the year 2010 with no place to dispose of spent fuel generated after that date . 
it is time to rethink our approach on spent fuel . 
we need to start moving spent fuel away from reactor sites to one or more centralized , above-ground interim storage facilities located at doe sites . 
if we want to build a new generation of nuclear power reactors in this country , we have got to demonstrate to investors and the public that the federal government will live up to its responsibilities under the nuclear waste policy act and to take title to commercial spent fuel . 
i would note that we are already storing foreign reactor fuel on doe sites . 
it is time we do the same for our domestic spent fuel . 
this may help to limit the billions of dollars of legal liability facing the federal government for its failure to accept commercial spent fuel for disposal . 
it is also time to think about our reluctance to reprocess spent fuel . 
the europeans are doing this very successfully , and there are some advanced reprocessing technologies in the research and development phase that promise to reduce or eliminate some of the disadvantages of the current chemical process . 
we add funds to the nuclear waste disposal account and direct the secretary to begin accepting commercial spent fuel in fiscal year 2006 for interim storage at one or more doe sites . 
we also include additional funds and direction within the nuclear energy account for the secretary to select an advanced reprocessing technology in fiscal year 2007 and to establish a competitive process to select one or more sites for an advanced fuel recycling facility . 
lastly , the committee recommends a new sustainable stockpile initiative to ensure the future of our nation 's nuclear deterrent . 
the committee provides additional funds for the reliable replacement warhead that we initiated in last year 's conference report . 
we placed the reliable replacement warhead in the context of a larger sustainable stockpile initiative , which we view as a package deal with several key components . 
first , the reliable replacement warhead is a program to reengineer existing warheads to be safer , more secure , cheaper to maintain , easier to dismantle and , more importantly , easier to certify without underground testing . 
secondly , we propose a modest slowdown of life extension work on the old warheads in preparation for a shift to the newer replacement warheads . 
this is coupled with a significant increase in dismantlement rates to bring down the stockpile to match the president 's decision about the size of the stockpile by the year 2012 . 
frankly , in the long run , i am hopeful the secretary 's task force on the nuclear weapons complex will propose some sensible steps to modernize the doe weapons complex and bring it into line with these coming changes in the size and composition of the stockpile . 
the committee provided for an aggressive nuclear nonproliferation program within the national nuclear security administration . 
we provided an additional $ 65 million to keep the plutonium producing reactor shutdown program with the russians on track to have all three reactors closed by 2011 . 
the committee also provided $ 85 million additional for the russian material protection program to secure nuclear materials overseas . 
we made a significant reduction to the domestic mox plant because of the large unexpended prior-year balances in that project , caused by the continued liability dispute with the russians . 
given the constrained budget environment , the committee can not continue to appropriate hundreds of millions of dollars for a construction project that has been delayed for 3 years . 
i believe this is a responsible bill that makes sound investment decisions for the future of our agencies . 
members will not receive as many water and energy projects as they may have liked , but we did take care of their top priorities . 
hopefully , we did that everywhere . 
i want to thank all the members of the subcommittee on energy and water development , and related agencies for helping to bring this bill to the floor today . 
i especially want to thank my ranking member , the gentleman from indiana ( mr. visclosky ) xz4004170 , for his extraordinary cooperation this past year . 
in my opinion , this is truly a bipartisan bill that represents a hard-fought but ultimately fair and balanced compromise . 
this is the way i believe our constituents expect their representatives to work together . 
i also want to thank the chairman of the committee on appropriations , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis ) xz4002392 and the ranking minority member , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 , for their support and for allowing us to move this bill forward in such an expeditious manner . 
lastly , i want to thank the staff of the committee : kevin cook , our clerk ; john blazey , scott burnison , terry tyborowski , and tracy laturner for their work on this bill . 
i also want to thank dixon butler of the minority staff and kenny kraft , from my office , and peder moorbjerg from the visclosky office . 
i want to especially acknowledge our agency 's detailees , taunja berquam and felicia kirksey , for their invaluable assistance in putting this bill and report together . 
it is a shared bill . 
we all work together and talk to each other , and i want to thank everybody for working together to get this bill this far . 
mr. chairman , it is my privilege to submit to the house for its consideration h.r. 2419 , the energy and water development appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 . 
the appropriations committee approved this bill unanimously on may 18 , and i believe this is a good bill that merits the support of the entire house . 
mr. chairman , this bill provides annual funding for a wide range of federal programs , including such diverse matters as flood control , navigation improvements , environmental restoration , nuclear waste disposal , advanced scientific research , applied energy research , maintenance of our nuclear stockpile , and nuclear nonproliferation . 
total funding for energy and water development in fiscal year 2006 is $ 29.746 billion . 
this funding amount represents a decrease of $ 728 , 000 below the budget request and $ 86.3 million below the current fiscal year . 
this bill is right at our subcommittee 's 302 ( b ) allocation , and provides adequate funds to meet the priority needs of the house . 
title i of the bill provides funding for the civil works program of the army corps of engineers , the formerly utilized sites remedial action program , which is executed by the corps , and the office of the assistant secretary of the army for civil works . 
the committee recommends a total of $ 4.746 billion for title i activities , $ 294 million below the current year and $ 414 million above the budget request . 
for a number of years , the corps civil works program has been oversubscribed , where congress kept giving the corps more and more projects to do , but not enough money to do them all . 
we took steps last year to put the corps on the road to fiscal recovery , by limiting the number of new starts and concentrating resources on the completion of ongoing construction projects . 
we also asked the office of management and budget to adopt a new approach to future corps budget requests , so that we can use our limited resources to complete the most valuable projects efficiently , instead of spreading those resources very widely to make incremental progress across a large number of projects . 
the fiscal year 2006 budget request adopts such a performance-based approach for the corps budget , proposing to use the ratio of remaining costs-to-remaining benefits as the primary determinant of which construction projects should receive priority consideration for funding . 
while this ratio may not be the perfect measure of merit for all projects , the budget request represents a good-faith effort from the office of management and budget to concentrate the corps ' limited resources on finishing the most worthwhile projects that are already under construction . 
until we begin to clear out the enormous backlog of ongoing work , we are very reluctant to add new projects to the pipeline . 
therefore , we did not include any new starts or new project authorizations for the corps in this house bill . 
one consequence of adopting this new performance-based approach to the corps budget is that the funds available for member adds for corps projects are very limited . 
in part , this is because , for the first time in years , we received a budget request in which many congressional priorities are already funded at a reasonable level . 
however , even with that request as a good starting point , the total amount that we can provide for the corps is less than what the house passed in fiscal year 2005 . 
with a healthy base request and a lean 302 ( b ) allocation , we did not add as much for member projects as we have in previous years . 
we were harsh but fair in how we dealt with these member requests . 
our fiscal year 2006 energy and water bill makes major strides toward improving the corps ' project execution , reprogrammings , and continuing contracts . 
let me talk for a moment about these interrelated issues . 
for a workload of approximately 2 , 000 projects , the chief of engineers recently told me that the corps does about 20 , 000 reprogrammings each year . 
we have gao reviewing the corps reprogrammings , and they tell us that the corps has reprogrammed funds for amounts as small as 6 cents . 
this is not sound financial management , and suggests that the corps is more focused on moving money around frequently to meet the corps ' determination of project needs , irrespective of the allocations provided in annual appropriations . 
instead , the corps should be managing its workload within the project allocations provided by congress . 
much of this problem is driven by the corps ' misplaced emphasis on expending 99 percent continuing contracts are a related problem . 
under this mechanism , the corps can obligate the federal government for funding future fiscal years . 
in some cases , the corps is awarding continuing contracts for projects that received no appropriation in fiscal year 2005 , or have not been included at all in the budget request for fiscal year 2006 . 
also , the corps uses accelerated earnings on continuing contracts to pay its contractors more than is appropriated for a project in the current fiscal year . 
in part , these accelerated earnings on continuing contracts are one of the drivers for the corps extensive reprogrammings , and also one of the mechanisms the corps uses in its pursuit of the 99 percent expenditure goal . 
this practice has to stop , and we include language limiting the corps ' ability to obligate the government in excess of appropriations . 
the department of energy receives a total of $ 24.318 billion in the energy and water development bill , an increase of $ 105 million over the budget request but $ 101 million less than the fiscal year 2005 level . 
as with the corps , we task the department of energy to begin preparing 5-year budget plans , first for individual programs and then an integrated plan for the entire department . 
this plan must include business plans for each of the doe laboratories , so we understand the mission and resource needs of each laboratory . 
the committee includes several important new initiatives for the department of energy . 
doe presently has significant quantities of weapons-usable special nuclear materials , plutonium and highly enriched uranium , scattered around the complex . 
unfortunately , even with the heightened attention to homeland security after the 9-11 attacks , the department has done little to consolidate these high-risk materials . 
we provide additional funds for a material consolidation initiative and direct doe to take aggressive action to consolidate its weapons-usable uranium and plutonium into fewer , more secure sites . 
we also propose a spent fuel recycling initiative to stimulate some fresh thinking on how this country deals with its spent nuclear fuel . 
i continue to support the yucca mountain repository , and our bill fully funds the request for yucca mountain in fiscal year 2006 . 
it is critical that we get yucca done right , and done soon . 
however , we continue to be frustrated by the delays in getting that repository open , and we are concerned about what happens after that first repository is built . 
the department of energy estimates that each year of delay on yucca mountain costs the government an additional $ 1 billion , half from the legal liability for doe 's failure to begin accepting commercial spent fuel beginning in 1998 , as is required by law , and the other half from the costs . 
in addition , the authorized capacity of yucca mountain will be fully utilized by the year 2010 , with no place to dispose of spent fuel generated after that date . 
it is time to rethink our approach to dealing with spent fuel . 
we need to start moving spent fuel away from reactor sites to one or more centralized , above-ground interim storage facilities located at doe sites . 
if we want to build a new generation of nuclear reactors in this country , we need to demonstrate to investors and the public that the federal government will live up to its responsibilities under the nuclear waste policy act to take title to commercial spent nuclear fuel . 
i would note that we are already it is also time that we think again about our reluctance to reprocess spent fuel . 
the europeans are doing this successfully , and there are some advanced reprocessing technologies in the research and development phase that promise to reduce or eliminate some of the disadvantages of the current chemical processes . 
we add funds to the nuclear waste disposal account and direct the secretary to begin accepting commercial spent fuel in fiscal year 2006 for interim storage at one or more doe sites . 
we also include additional funds and direction within the nuclear energy account for the secretary to select an advanced reprocessing technology in fiscal year 2007 and to establish a competitive process to select one or more sites for an advanced fuel recycling facility . 
lastly , the committee recommends a new sustainable stockpile initiative to ensure the future of our nation 's nuclear deterrent . 
the committee provides additional funds for the reliable replacement warhead , which we initiated in last year 's conference report . 
we place the reliable replacement warhead in the context of the larger sustainable stockpile initiative , which we view as a package deal with several key elements . 
first , the reliable replacement warhead is a program to re-engineer existing warheads to be safer , more secure , cheaper to maintain , easier to dismantle , and most importantly , easier to certify without underground nuclear testing . 
second , we propose a modest slow-down of life extension work on the old warheads in preparation for a shift to the newer replacement warheads . 
this is coupled with a significant increase in dismantlement rates to the committee provided for an aggressive nuclear nonproliferation program within the national nuclear security administration . 
we provided an additional $ 65 million to keep the plutonium producing reactor shutdown program with the russians on track to have all three reactors closed by 2011 . 
the committee also provided $ 85 million additional for the russian material protection program to secure nuclear material overseas . 
we made a significant reduction to the domestic mox plant because of the large unexpended prior year balances in that project caused by the continued liability dispute with the russians . 
given the constrained budget environment , the committee can not continue to appropriate hundreds of millions of dollars for a construction project that been delayed for 3 years . 
i believe this is a responsible bill that makes sound investment decisions for the future of our agencies . 
members will not receive as many water or energy projects as they might like , but we did take care of their top priorities . 
i want to thank all the members of the energy and water development subcommittee for their help in bringing this bill to the floor today . 
i especially want to thank my ranking member , mr. visclosky of indiana , for his extraordinary cooperation this past year . 
this is truly a bipartisan bill that represents a hard-fought but ultimately fair and balanced compromise . 
this is why i believe our constituents expect their representatives to work together . 
i also want to thank the chairman of the appropriations committee , mr. lewis , and the ranking minority member , mr. obey , for their support and for allowing us to move this bill forward in an expeditious manner . 
lastly , i would like to thank the staff of the subcommittee -- kevin cook , john blazey , scott burnison , terry tyborowki , and tracey laturner -- for their hard work on this bill . 
i also want to thank dixon butler of the minority staff , and both kenny kraft from my office and peder maarbjerg of mr. visclosky 's office . 
i especially want to acknowledge our agency detailees , taunja berquam and felicia kirksey , for their invaluable assistance in putting this bill and report together . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. frelinghuysen ) xz4001420 mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
first of all , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 for his kind comments . 
the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 is the scholar of the house . 
he reads these things and understands them , and i very much appreciate his remarks on the bill on behalf of both myself and the ranking member . 
mr. chairman , i yield 3 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from tennessee ( mr. wamp ) xz4004210 . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. chairman , i share the gentleman 's support of this important program , and i share his goal in this field . 
i am disappointed that the department 's fiscal year 2006 budget request did not preserve the increases that this subcommittee provided for this purpose during the past 2 fiscal years . 
because of the department 's disregard for congressional intent , the committee provides $ 30 million of the increase for the center of competition science at oak ridge national laboratory which was selected competitively to build this leadership-class supercomputer . 
the committee expects the department to make full use of this laboratory industry capability . 
finally , i agree with the gentleman of the importance of this effort and encourage the department of energy to make the necessary budget requests in the future to continue this very important effort . 
mr. chairman , if the gentleman would continue to yield , the gentleman 's understanding is correct . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from iowa ( mr. latham ) xz4002340 , a member of the committee . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from california ( mr. doolittle ) xz4001130 , a member of the committee . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from utah ( mr. bishop ) xz4000291 . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
the gentleman 's understanding is correct . 
i do not see any reason for the secretary to consider making a private site , or a site on tribal land , into a doe site for interim storage . 
my intent is for the secretary to evaluate storage options at existing doe sites . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. ferguson ) xz4001320 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from florida ( mr. feeney ) xz4001310 for a colloquy . 
mr. chairman , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. chairman , as the gentleman from florida is aware , the budget is very tight this year ; and due to the lack of federal funds , many projects the committee supported in the past did not receive appropriations this year . 
because money is tight , locals will need to do more with less and finish this with other local money . 
as the gentleman knows , i have got three grandchildren living in florida ; so i am interested in the state of florida , and i appreciate the gentleman 's bringing this to our attention . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
let me close and say i want to thank my ranking member because we have worked together on this bill . 
it is a very comprehensive and detailed bill in a lot of scientific ways . 
we do take some visions for the future of this country which i think are very important when it comes to the waterways and we get the increased plume , which results from not finishing these projects , completed . 
i think also as important , if not more so , is the vision for the corps and the waterways in the future . 
also the vision for the department of energy both in the weapons area and in the area of future cost-effective power for this country so that this country can compete in the world in the future are both dealt with in various stages in this bill . 
so i hope that everyone will support this bill . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move that the committee do now rise . 
the motion was agreed to . 
accordingly , the committee rose ; and the speaker pro tempore ( mr. simpson ) xz4003760 having assumed the chair , mr. goodlatte , chairman of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union , reported that that committee , having had under consideration the bill ( h.r. 2419 ) making appropriations for energy and water development for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2006 , and for other purposes , had come to no resolution thereon . 
mr. chairman , coal is by far the largest domestic source of energy we produce . 
here in the united states , we have between 250 and 300 years of a coal supply . 
that is more than the amount of recoverable oil contained in the entire world . 
i am proud to represent the anthracite coal fields of pennsylvania , which have the largest anthracite coal deposit in north america , arguably the largest deposit in the world . 
it is a high-btu , low-sulfur fuel , and is considered the cleanest-burning solid fuel on the commercial market today . 
but as we can see through rising fuel prices , we are too dependent upon foreign oil . 
in the united states , we consume about 20.5 million barrels of oil per day . 
that 's about 7.5 billion barrels per year . 
half of that is imported . 
and almost half of american oil consumption is for motor vehicles . 
one of our priorities should be to reduce our dependence on foreign oil . 
we should be increasing research and development into our fossil fuel program . 
with continued research of coal , the potential of the united states becoming energy self-sufficient in an environmentally friendly manner is enhanced . 
for over 15 years , through the clean coal programs of the department of energy , the federal government has been a solid partner , working jointly with private companies and the states to develop and demonstrate a new generation of environmentally clean technology using coal . 
one benefit of the clean coal programs takes advantage of a decades ' old technology of converting coal and waste coal into clean diesel fuel . 
in pennsylvania alone , there is an excess of 200-300 million tons of waste coal that has accumulated over the years . 
a company in gilberton , pennsylvania , in my district , is ready to do convert this waste coal to diesel fuel and electricity on a large scale . 
the plant has received support from doe 's clean coal power initiative . 
coal research and development provides huge benefits for the nation , and pay for itself many times over through taxes flowing back to the treasury from expanded economic activity . 
the clean coal programs are important for several reasons . 
they : clean up the environment by burning waste coal ; reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and air toxics ; develop cleaner , more efficient power systems ; sponsor promising technologies that are too risky for private industry to undertake alone ; provide a model for future government-industry technology partnerships ; and provide tremendous job opportunities in this country , not in the middle east . 
in 2002 , president bush said , `` we will promote clean coal technology. '' the president recently outlined four important objectives that need to be included in this energy bill . 
these objectives are all met by clean coal programs : encourage the use of technology to improve conservation ; encourage more production at home in environmentally sensitive ways ; diversify our energy supply by developing alternative sources of energy and create more energy choices ; and help us find better , more reliable ways to deliver energy to consumers . 
we need to take advantage of our own natural resources . 
i encourage my colleagues to continue to support clean coal programs . 
mr. chairman , i thank the distinguished gentleman for yielding me this time . 
first of all , i am grateful that the committee on science had an opportunity to provide insight into this legislation . 
i have an amendment that i will be discussing later on in the day that speaks to the purpose of my standing today in general debate , and that is to make , i think , the declaration that we clearly need to have an energy policy . 
my amendment will engage farmers and ranchers in texas and all over the nation to give them extra training and resources to assess the availability and viability of bioenergy . 
but it is important that , although this legislation may not be all that we want it to be , the very fact that there is going to be a review of electricity and transmission is important , the very fact that we acknowledge the high cost of gasoline , even though i might say to my distinguished friend from tennessee i offered an amendment that might determine why there is such an increase in gasoline prices , why the transportation costs are so high , and of course that was not allowed . 
but we will have a number of debates dealing with the price of gasoline . 
this is not a `` get-you '' time in america . 
this should not be , we get the industry or we get the consumer . 
this needs to be a time when we sit down and reconcile over these very frightening issues . 
i want jobs in my community . 
i want a thriving energy industry . 
in fact , i had an initiative that would report on the deposits in texas and louisiana offshore so that we could be more independent of foreign oil and do more domestic drilling in a safe and environmentally manageable way . 
this bill today will allow us to debate these questions . 
am i disappointed ? 
in some sense , yes , that global warming is not mentioned , that more of the environmental emphasis is not mentioned ; but if we do not move from point a to point b to point c to have a real energy policy , there will be no way , if you will , to ensure for the american people a safe and secure america . 
it is a question of energy security . 
i would ask my colleagues to consider this legislation as we move forward . 
mr. chairman , i speak today with mixed emotions . 
while i realize the importance of having a comprehensive energy bill , i am concerned that the bill does not do enough . 
please do not misunderstand me , there are good aspects to the bill . 
for example , the bill provides for much needed advances in energy efficiency , renewable energy , and nuclear . 
however , there is still much work to be done . 
to this end , i plan to offer an amendment and work with members , and industry with hopes of improving upon some key aspects of the bill . 
before going any further , i think it is important to touch upon the question everyone is asking , `` why are gas prices so high ? 
`` whether right or wrong , the common answer has been that supply is not able to keep up with demand . 
according to recent studies , overall prices are rising because of the razor-thin supply and demand balance in the global crude oil market ( i.e . 
the increase demand for oil in china and india has played a major role in driving up oil prices around the world ) . 
in addition , the situation in iraq has not helped . 
unfortunately , there seems to be no end in sight to this problem . 
according to the energy information administration , eia prices in 2005 are projected to remain high , at an expected average of $ 2.28 per gallon for the april to september summer season , 38 cents above last summer . 
similar high motor gasoline prices are expected through 2006 . 
monthly average prices are projected to peak at about $ 2.35 per gallon in may . 
summer diesel fuel prices are expected to average $ 2.24 per gallon . 
as in 2004 , the primary factor behind these price increases is crude oil costs . 
in the united states , additional changes in gasoline specifications and tight refinery capacity can be expected to increase operating costs slightly and limit supply flexibility , adding further pressure on pump prices . 
despite high prices , demand is expected to continue to rise due to the increasing number of drivers and vehicles and increasing per-capita vehicle miles traveled . 
while these may be the facts , it does not sit well with my constituents back in texas , and for that matter with all americans . 
thus , as the bill moves along the legislative process , i will be working with members and industry to establish a sense of the congress that the secretary of energy , acting through the administrator of the energy information administration , should commence an immediate investigation on the causes of high gasoline prices in the united states and , in collaboration with the petroleum industry and the congress , develop a solution to such prices . 
at the rate we are going , the average american will not be able to afford to drive . 
it is important for me to mention that i will also work with members of congress to encourage the secretary of the interior , in consultation with other appropriate federal agencies , every 2 years , to transmit a report to the congress assessing the contents of natural gas and oil deposits at existing drilling sites off the coasts of louisiana and texas . 
it is important that we do our best to become an energy independent nation . 
this can only be done through the full utilization of energy sources within our nation 's geographic influence . 
currently , most if not all , of the nations we import oil from are either directly or indirectly hostile towards the u.s. many of these nations provide funding to terrorist groups who oppose the u.s. and at any time could decide not to sell oil needless to say , i represent residents and businesses that call the 18th congressional district of texas their home . 
energy and energy related companies and dozens of other exploration companies are the backbone of the houston economy . 
for this reason , the 18th congressional district can claim well-established energy producing companies and suppliers as well as those engaged in renewable energy exploration and development . 
i believe that the effects of rising energy prices have had and will continue to have a chilling effect on our nation 's economy . 
everything we as consumers eat , touch or use in our day-to-day lives have energy costs added into the price we pay . 
today , our society is in the midst of major sociological and technical revolutions , which will forever change the way we live and work . 
we are moving from a predominantly industrial economy to an information-centered economy . 
while or society has an increasingly older and longer living population the world has become increasingly smaller , integrated and interdependent . 
as with all change , current national and international transformations present both dangers and opportunities , which must be recognized and seized upon . 
thus , the question arises , how do we manage these changes to protect the disadvantaged , disenfranchised and disavowed while improving their situation and destroying barriers to job creation , small business , and new markets ? 
one way to address this issue is to ensure that this nation becomes energy independent through the full utilization of energy sources within our nation 's geographic influence . 
before concluding , let me say that as legislators , we must boldly define , address and find solutions to future energy problems . 
we know that the geological supply of fossil fuel in not infinite , but finite . 
we know that our nation 's best reserves of fuel sources are in the forms of coal and natural gas , among others . 
i would only caution my colleagues , administration officials , academics , industry leaders , environmental groups and consumers not to assume that we have learned all that is there is to know about energy extraction , refining , generation , or transportation but that we are still learning . 
we must bring to this debate a vigor and vitality that will enliven our efforts to not have a future of energy have and have nots , due to out of control energy demand with few creative minds working on the solution to this pressing problem . 
mr. chairman , i offer an amendment . 
mr. chairman , i thank the ranking member and the chairman of the subcommittee for their work on this bill . 
this is hard work . 
this particular appropriations bill goes to the very heart of many of our congressional districts . 
i appreciate very much the $ 4.7 billion in funding provided to the army corps of engineers , but let me express my disappointment that we have not been able to stretch the dollars to provide work on new projects . 
i am speaking particularly about sims bayou , greens bayou , white oaks bayou and braes bayou . 
more importantly , having worked on legislation dealing with inland flooding , i can tell you that flooding is a very serious issue in my district . 
i look forward to working with this appropriations subcommittee through the coming session to be able to provide greater assistance . 
might i also acknowledge my concern on the funding for nonproliferation in nuclear weapons . 
while i wish we had been able to include more dollars in this area , i am pleased that we were able to increase their funding by $ 8 million over last year . 
unlike previous years , due to the appropriations subcommittee reorganization , the bill funds several renewable energy programs , clean coal technology , and the strategic petroleum reserve . 
such programs greatly enhance the lives and security of my constituents . 
i am very pleased that the appropriations committee rejected the administration 's proposal to prioritize army corps of engineers water projects based on the projected revenue they would bring to the government . 
i want to join the gentleman from texas ( mr. gene green ) as relates to our port in houston , a very important economic arm , but also an entity that needs a great deal of oversight and funding for security and also operation . 
i am disappointed that the maintenance and operation funding is not as much as it should be . 
i also wish there could have been added funds for new projects . 
obviously , the needs of this nation change on a daily basis . 
saying that this year we will not start any new projects is a bit illogical . 
new projects are extremely efficient in job creation and there are many competitive projects across the nation . 
one portion of the bill i am concerned about is the underfunding of the national nuclear security administration , $ 136 million less than the president 's request . 
i understand that some of this withheld money would have gone to the robust nuclear earth penetrator . 
i agree with the committee that we need to think long and hard before we start creating new nuclear weapons when we are pushing the rest of the world . 
mr. chairman , i ask my colleagues to support this and hope that we can do something more about the yucca mountain project by not funding it , without further study and consideration of other opinions . 
the people of nevada deserve no less . 
mr. chairman , let me first say thanks to you and the ranking member for your work on this bill . 
mr. chairman , let me raise an issue of concern for my constituents . 
i appreciate very much the $ 4.7 billion in funding provided to the army corps of engineers , but let me express my disappointment that we have not been able to stretch the dollars to provide work on new projects . 
i am speaking particularly about sims bayou , greens bayou , white oaks bayou and braes bayou . 
more importantly , having worked on legislation dealing with inland flooding , i can tell you that flooding is a very serious issue in my district , and i would look forward to working with this appropriations subcommittee through conference to be able to provide some greater assistance . 
mr. chairman , might i also acknowledge my concern on the funding for nonproliferation in nuclear weapons . 
while i wish we had been able to include more dollars in this area , i am please that we were able to increase their funding by $ 8 million over last year 's levels . 
i would like to commend the chairman and ranking member of the energy and water subcommittee of the appropriations committee for their excellent work on crafting this bill . 
there are several elements of debate between the majority and the minority , and between the house and the administration , but in general it seems that a fair compromise has been reached . 
unlike previous years , due to the appropriations subcommittee reorganization , the bill funds several renewable energy programs , clean coal technology , and the strategic petroleum reserve . 
such programs greatly enhance the lives and security of my constituents . 
i am very pleased that the appropriations committee rejected the administration 's proposal to prioritize army corps of engineers water projects based on the projected revenue they would bring to the government . 
this prioritization plan would have essentially eliminated some , while much needed , less profitable projects . 
i support the $ 4.7 billion provided for the corps , 9.5 percent more than the president 's request . 
this is a smart investment . 
i wish there could have been added funds for new projects . 
obviously , the needs of this nation change on a daily basis . 
saying that this year , we will not start any new projects is a bit illogical . 
new projects are extremely efficient in job creation . 
there are many competitive projects across the nation and in my district , which should have been provided for . 
however , at least this bill is not a step backwards , like the administration 's request . 
i commend the committee for its leadership on this issue . 
one portion of the bill i am concerned about is the under-funding of the national nuclear security administration ( nnsa ) , $ 136 million less than the president 's request . 
i understand that some of this withheld money would have gone to the `` robust nuclear earth penetrator. '' i agree with the committee that we need to think long and hard before we start creating new nuclear weapons , when we are pushing the rest of the world to put aside such implements of violence and destruction . 
we are being accused on every front of employing double standards : as we march on in war and talk about peace in the middle east ; as we spurn our own neighbors in cuba but ask people in the occupied territories or in korea or in south asia , to forgive and forget ; as we talk about liberating people but allow tens of millions to die from hiv/aids in africa . 
we do not need through my work on the science committee i have come to understand the amazing new technologies on the horizon that will decrease our reliance on foreign sources of fossil fuels , and help preserve our environment for generations to come . 
it is good to see that this bill has allotted $ 3.7 billion , 6 percent more than the administration 's request for science programs . 
however , of the energy research out there , hydrogen fuels and fuel cells are some of the most promising areas that need to be developed . 
the science committee has encouraged strong support of these programs , and the administration also has recognized their value . 
but this appropriations bill provides for less than half of what the administration has requested for hydrogen technology research . 
i represent houston , the energy capital of the world . 
i understand the needs again i thank the chairman and the ranking member for their work on this bill . 
the lagging economy of the past 3 years , and huge deficits that have been created by our fiscal policies , have made budgets very tight . 
i wish this were not the case . 
but considering the box we are in , i believe our appropriators have done an admirable job here to fund important priorities and serve the nation 's energy and water needs . 
yet i am very disappointed in the support for the yucca mountain nuclear waste respository at an amount of an additional $ 310 million . 
the project needs more consideration and more study , there is much opposition in nevada and the people of that great state deserve better from this congress . 
madam chairman , i rise to support this amendment . 
since coming to congress , i have been committed to the need to maximize our domestic energy resources . 
however , i firmly believe that we must pursue domestic energy independence in a manner that protects our natural resources like the arctic national wildlife refuge . 
instead of opening up anwr to oil drilling , i believe that we should look to new sources and new technologies to increase our energy independence . 
i am proud to say that my state of minnesota is a leader in the field of renewable energy such as ethanol , biodiesel , and wind energy . 
minnesota companies offer innovative technologies to reduce our energy needs . 
these renewable energy sources and technologies offer a sensible alternative to help reduce our reliance on foreign sources of oil without endangering our environment . 
that is why i support the markey-johnson amendment and urge my colleagues to do the same . 
i rise today in strong support of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act . 
we need a balanced energy policy in this country , and this bill takes great strides towards achieving that balance . 
as a founding co-chair of the house ag energy users caucus , i am concerned that the corn belt is being held hostage to high gas , diesel and natural gas prices . 
farmers utilize diesel and gasoline to operate their equipment and transport their product . 
farmers have had to tighten their belts as prices have increased . 
therefore , i am in strong support of this energy bill that allows for exploration in the arctic national wildlife reserve ( anwr ) , which will allow for more domestic supply of oil . 
nothing has caused more concern for agriculture than the price of natural gas . 
natural gas is the primary feedstock for anhydrous ammonia and other fertilizers and accounts for 90 percent of the cost of making nitrogen fertilizer . 
the surge in natural gas prices over the last 4 years has been a key reason why nitrogen fertilizer costs have jumped by nearly 50 percent at the farm level . 
this rise in prices has contributed to the growing reliance on imported fertilizer . 
for that reason , i am in strong support of the natural gas provisions in this bill and would urge members to oppose amendments that would weaken any natural gas provisions in the bill . 
finally madam chairman , most of my colleagues know that iowa is not only a consumer of energy , but a producer of energy . 
the fifth district of iowa is an energy export center , exporting ethanol and biodiesel all across this nation . 
this bill includes a 5 billion gallon renewable fuels standard that will be good for our energy independence while securing rural economies . 
however , i want to see the bill come back from conference with an 8 billion gallon standard . 
i urge my colleagues to vote in favor of the energy policy act . 
madam speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for organizing this special order , and i ask the gentleman from idaho if he would pause a moment to engage in a brief colloquy with the gentleman from idaho ( mr. otter ) xz4003050 because the gentleman holds some expertise , and that is the need to continue to build refineries in this country , crude oil refineries . 
could you speak for a moment about what we expect will happen with refinery construction in this country if we pass the energy bill as it is presented . 
i thank the gentleman from idaho ( mr. otter ) xz4003050 for his comments . 
i will get to some more of that subject matter of education as i go through this . 
i appreciate your patience with me tonight and indulgence . 
i would like to first speak to the broad picture of energy across this country . 
there is this entire pie of energy here and different components and slices of this pie . 
energy , first of all , is a component in everything that we buy . 
if there is any one item that adds to inflation in all the products that we purchase in this country , it is energy because it takes energy to produce anything , it takes energy to deliver anything , and it takes energy to go pick it up and buy it . 
so whenever we move , we are burning energy , and that is a part of the cost of everything we are . 
if we do not have an effective energy policy , we are paying more for all goods and services in this country than is necessary and that means it makes us less competitive in the rest of the world . 
that is the big picture as to why energy is so important . 
some of the components of this energy are crude oil . 
we know how much energy we bring in across from the middle east and venezuela and other parts of the world that is imported into the united states . 
the crude oil cost includes also the military investment over there and the unrest and everyone , as was said earlier , the gentleman from texas stated about every country must have their energy . 
whatever it takes , we must have our energy . 
but we sit in this country on a significant supply of domestic crude oil . 
this bill puts in place the motion to construct the refineries that we need so that we can bring the crude oil in and get it refined . 
it also allows for us to go up to anwr and do our drilling up there to bring that crude oil down to the lower 48 . 
i also have been up to anwr to take a look at that . 
as i asked the people up there around the kaktovik area , they said , yes , we have to go hunt the caribou during a certain time of the year but really the resident caribou in the drilling area are only in there from mid-may until the end of june . 
they come in to calve and then they leave about the end of june . 
that is the time when the permafrost thaws down to about a foot or 18 inches . 
nothing is going to move during that period of time except the caribou and when those young calves get old enough to walk back , they go back over to canada out of the area , so nothing would be going on in that region when the caribou were there . 
it is kind of a caribou maternity ward in that part of alaska . 
we need that domestic crude oil and any nation that is looking to its long-term best interests will be producing its own energy . 
the concern about someday running out of crude oil , why would you keep it in the bank forever when we have other opportunities for different energy supplies that will be developed as science and technology catches up ? 
we need to go there , get that crude oil , get it drilled , and bring it down the alaska pipeline . 
by the way , the alaska pipeline , if the north slope oil runs out , and it looks like it is heading in that direction , that pipeline has to stay full almost all the time or it starts to erode inside the pipe , it turns to rust and it may not be able to be put back up on line . 
so it is important that we keep the alaska pipeline up and going . 
that is a huge and valuable resource that began construction there in about 1972 . 
it has been there a long time , it has served very , very well , and it can do a lot more . 
in that same region is all of the natural gas that is already developed that we do not have a good way to deliver it to the lower 48 , that is the pipeline . 
yes , there are some things to work out within the state of alaska . 
i hope that gets done . 
we have done , i think , what we can do here , at least for now , but we need that natural gas , we need it into the corn belt , we need it for a lot of the reasons that the gentleman from colorado said , and i am glad he is in here talking about corn and ethanol with regard to energy . 
in the part of the country where i come from , we have constructed ethanol production to the extent that within the next 2 years , we will be able to say that we have built all of the ethanol production , all the plants that we have the corn to supply in the fifth district in iowa , the western third of iowa . 
we have started construction now on biodiesel plants , we have two plants up and running now , we are breaking ground on a third plant that happens to be about 9 miles from where i live as the crow flies on biodiesel . 
biodiesel is coming along in the same shoes as ethanol , only a lot faster , because they have learned from the people that blazed the trail in ethanol . 
we are going to have , i believe , within the next 5 to 6 years , all of the biodiesel production that we will have , the soybeans and the other bioproducts to supply . 
that has made already this district that i represent an energy export center with the ethanol production being up to almost all we can provide and the biodiesel , we have started on it very well . 
we have tremendous wind energy that has been put in place there in the last 4 to 5 years . 
i will say 6 to 7 years ago , we had almost no energy production , we were an energy consumption region , and today we are an energy export center . 
it has changed that much . 
it has helped a lot with our energy independence and to become less dependent on foreign energy supplies of all kinds . 
but we are faced with this need for nitrogen fertilizer and almost all of our nitrogen fertilizer is made directly from natural gas , directly from natural gas . 
ninety percent of the cost of that fertilizer is the cost of purchasing the gas to produce the nitrogen from it . 
so we sit in this country without being able to get the pipeline down from alaska where the gas is , it is already developed , and that is a process that if all goes well could maybe get done in 6 years . 
it may take 9 or 10 years to get there . 
yet that needs to happen and it needs to happen quickly . 
but within the lower 48 states , earlier we saw the map of the layout of the natural gas , along the east coast , the west coast and the outer shelf around florida and in the central part of the united states . 
one of these esteemed gentlemen has made the statement on this floor , and i am going to repeat it , and i believe it , and that is that we have enough known natural gas reserves underneath non-national park public lands in the united states of america to heat every home in america for the next 150 years . 
that is almost a renewable energy resource when you look at that kind of a quantity . 
yet natural gas is three times the price as it was just 5 and 6 years ago . 
our natural gas that produces our fertilizer has done the same thing to our fertilizer prices . 
people in the corn belt pay going into the ground with their fertilizer and then when they take that grain off the field in the fall , they have to dry the grain and most times what do they dry it with ? 
natural gas . 
so we are more susceptible to high natural gas prices than maybe any place else in the country and we have watched because of that the fertilizer production go offshore to places like venezuela and russia . 
i remember what happened with the oil cartel in the late seventies when they shut down the oil delivery to the united states and the prices went up . 
we could be in that same situation with venezuela and russia if we let them take on any more of the fertilizer production . 
we need it here . 
we have got the gas here . 
we need to develop the gas . 
when we develop the gas , we will be able to keep our fertilizer plants . 
but if we do not , we will not be able to keep those plants which means we lose that fertilizer production and makes us dependent on those countries that i named . 
that is really critical . 
we mentioned the solar energy as a component and that is going on in some of the parts of the country . 
hydroelectric has been built and constructed . 
one of the other things i am concerned about is we have not built a nuclear plant in this country in a generation . 
the engineering technology that it takes to do that is leaving us year by year . 
that is another piece that has got to move along . 
we have got hydrogen around the corner and hydrogen may be the answer to much of this , but if we put all these pieces together , wind and ethanol and biodiesel and natural gas and crude oil , hydroelectric , the whole list , we have got the picture of the pieces that make us less dependent on foreign oil . 
that is the picture , that is the energy bill , and that is why i support it . 
mr. chairman , i rise today to urge funding to redraw the flood plain maps that would assist in addressing flood plan management problems along the missouri river . 
the states of iowa , nebraska , south dakota , and missouri , as well as all cities and counties bordering the river , have an immediate need for improved flood plain information along the missouri river . 
the lack of incomplete data hampers the way that communities plan for their economic future and interact with state and federal agencies . 
the existing data is approximately 30 years old . 
coupled with that , is the fact that the recently completed upper mississippi river system flow frequency study , which includes the main-lower missouri below gavins point dam , resulted in significant this need for new information is due to the changes in land use and the pressure from development occurring all along the river . 
improving the flood plain mapping , which meets the requirements of the nfip ( authorized by p.l . 
86-645 ) , can be developed working from the results of the upper mississippi river system flow frequency study . 
the new flood plain information will allow development of water surface profiles and digital flood insurance rate maps ( dfirm ) for regulating current and future development of the 100-year and 500-year flood plains as well as the floodway along this 313-mile reach of the river . 
i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
mr. chairman , i just want to , first of all , express what an honor and privilege it is to work on a subcommittee that works in such a bipartisan way with the great leadership of the chairman and the ranking member . 
it is really a pleasure to actually get into policy discussions rather than a lot of the politics that we hear around here . 
it is very much appreciated . 
also , the tremendous staff that we have on this subcommittee . 
i think the gentleman from tennessee ( mr. wamp ) xz4004210 mentioned the great professionalism that they have on both sides of the aisle . 
it is a real pleasure . 
this bill is a really good bill under an allocation that could always be larger . 
we have worked out , i think , everything possible we can with the dollars available . 
i am very appreciative of the fact that we have focused on renewable energy , the kind of important work that we do on the river , on the mississippi , and other projects that are involved also . 
i want to commend the chairman and the ranking member and urge support of this very , very good bill . 
mr. speaker , will the gentleman yield ? 
mr. speaker , i appreciate my appropriations colleague yielding me a moment just to say that my colleague , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 , and i have spent a lot of time together discussing these questions and the schedule and otherwise . 
the relationship is extremely positive , and i believe he and i this week , before the week is out , will have a chance to sit down and talk about 302 ( b ) s , for example . 
we are going to move forward very expeditiously , and i think it will benefit , one more time , my colleague and i , who are appropriations members together , and it will benefit our committee greatly . 
i very much appreciate the gentleman yielding . 
mr. speaker , we have come to the conclusion , by looking at some recent history , that we can , within pretty close margins , measure what our likely allocations will be . 
the subcommittees are proceeding as though there are numbers , recognizing full well that we will have to respond to the final budget package as they have given it to us and as we have talked between subcommittee chairmen , but we can pretty well guesstimate . 
in the past , i believe that we have tended to delay our process because we decided we had to wait until the budget process was already complete , and we let supplementals interfere with that process , et cetera . 
so , in the past , we found ourselves sending our product to the other body just as we go past the end of the fiscal year , hardly giving them the time to do the kind of work that they would like to do , thus the omnibus , et cetera . 
the cooperation between the two bodies , i must say to my colleague , is better than i could ever have imagined . 
it is a fabulous , growing relationship , and i think it will benefit both of the bodies . 
mr. chairman , the previous speaker made some good points . 
he talked about the need for our country to discover new alternative sources of energy , and i think the gentleman is right . 
the underlying bill under consideration has some incentives for developing those new alternative sources of energy . 
should we do more ? 
perhaps . 
i think perhaps when we get the final bill out of conference with the senate , there may be more in the bill . 
but to rail against the oil and gas industry , as the gentleman did , and the provisions in the underlying bill that provide tax incentives for exploration and development of our oil and gas reserves in this country , to me rings empty because the substitute or the amendment that is before us that the gentleman spoke in favor of does not strike any of those provisions in the underlying bill . 
all this amendment does is add new tax credits to the underlying bill . 
so all of the rhetoric that we heard about the underlying bill is just talk because this amendment does nothing to affect those provisions the gentleman was speaking against . 
what this amendment does do is basically double the cost of this bill , at least the tax provisions in this bill . 
we have not had time , and the chairman of the committee on energy and commerce spoke about the number of pages in this amendment , we have not had time , frankly , to analyze it from a budgetary aspect to see if it violates the house budget we have already passed . 
it very well could . 
but it takes the cost of tax provisions in this bill from about $ 8 billion over 10 years to about $ 17 billion over 10 years . 
now , the accounting gimmick , as the gentleman from washington put it , is called lifo , last in first out . 
this is not an accounting principle used just by the oil and gas industry . 
it is used by every sector of our economy . 
it is in common usage , and there is a reason . 
the reason is if we insisted on industry , of whatever kind , accounting for first in first out , it would lead to distortions in the market , and it would lead to business decisions based on tax considerations instead of market considerations . 
last in first out is something commonly used throughout industry , not just the oil and gas industry . 
they can not game it . 
there are regulations in place to keep them from shifting their inventory around to take advantage of the accounting rule . 
so this is not something , some gimmick for the oil and gas industry . 
it is a very sound accounting principle used throughout industry in this country . 
so i would urge this house not to listen to the words of the gentleman , but look at the action embodied in the amendment . 
this amendment does nothing to the underlying tax provisions in the bill . 
it doubles the cost of the bill , and it would impose upon the oil and gas industry , just one industrial sector in this country , a retroactive tax increase because under his accounting change , those companies would have to go back and recapture what they would have paid in taxes and pay them prospectively over the next 10 years . 
i hope we have concluded in this body that retroactive tax increases are bad policy . 
so for that reason alone , i would recommend that we reject this amendment . 
mr. chairman , natural gas prices have risen by over 300 percent since 1998 . 
and while we are concerned about jobs going overseas , let us be reminded that we pay 25 percent more than china and 14 percent more than europe . 
we have lost some 3 million manufacturing jobs in this nation related to higher natural gas prices since 1999 . 
in the last 5 years , 90 , 000 jobs from the chemical industry alone have been lost because of higher natural gas prices . 
we have doubled the price of fertilizer which increases the price for farmers which is passed on in higher food costs . 
homeowners have seen a 55 percent increase in natural gas prices in their home . 
this is the issue of the law of supply and demand . 
if we want to increase the supplies , if we want to lower the cost , if we want to save jobs in america that so many people talk about here all the time , we have to have more natural gas in this country , which means we should be opening up safe opportunities , allow states to monitor this , all of which is in the energy bill . 
i recommend my colleagues oppose this amendment so we can keep jobs and keep natural gas prices lower . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i have a little different view of this . 
this is a good bill . 
it is a bill this country needs . 
we need a national energy policy , there is no question about it , and i congratulate the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 on years of hard , dedicated work to bring this to the floor . 
having said that , like any other bill i have ever seen , it is not a perfect bill ; it has its good and bad parts . 
and if i could , mr. chairman , just for the record , i would like to have a little quick colloquy with the gentleman from texas . 
mr. chairman , as my colleague from texas knows , the electricity title is very , very important to my consumers and my constituents in the southeast as well as in the northwest , and one of the provisions in the title that is not there is regarding participatory funding . 
since that is a fairly standard thought-out thing in regional transmission organizations , i am concerned that the bill does not have any language in there to assure me and my constituents that they are not going to have to pay extra . 
we do really want to help people that are having blackouts and brownouts , but we do not think we should pay the whole load . 
what can i anticipate on participatory funding down the road ? 
i yield to the gentleman from texas . 
mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i thank the gentleman very much . 
as he knows , i agree participatory means `` everybody pays , '' and those that reap the advantages of this , which will be the generators of electricity and the receivers of electricity , need to pay . 
and i am all right with that . 
i thank my colleague , and i look forward to working with him on this as we move forward toward conference . 
i thank the chairman . 
madam chairman , i had an opportunity to go up to and visit in alaska the gentleman from alaska 's ( chairman young ) district . 
and i find it really interesting to hear the opposition to this bill because when i went up there , i envisioned that i would see trees , running water , big mountains , things that the american people would want to preserve . 
however , when i got there , i found nothing but tundra . 
and it was just kind of a wasteland of ice and tundra . 
and as the american people are paying upwards of $ 2.50 a gallon for fuel today and we sit in the white building on capitol hill , i wonder what they are thinking out there . 
this should have been opened long ago . 
we could get 10 percent of our daily supply from anwr . 
but i believe that the radical environmental groups have been using this as a fund-raising tool for their organizations because what they say is in anwr and what we see when we get there does not exist . 
and now i think the fund-raising has continued . 
unfortunately , though , it has spread here to the halls of congress . 
and with all the ethics charges that are being brought today by the democrats , i find it very interesting that the author of this amendment sends out a fund-raising letter , and i have the fund-raising letter right here that , that asks people to contribute today . 
and i would like to submit this for the record , madam chairman , because this is outrageous when people are paying $ 2.50 a gallon and the democrats and the radical environmental groups are using this as a fund-raising tool . 
dear friend : in a few short hours , the republican energy bill will be brought up for debate and a vote on the floor of the house of representatives . 
i need your immediate help to ensure that this terrible bill never becomes law . 
last week , in the energy and commerce committee , i offered a series of amendments to increase the average fuel efficiency of cars , mini-vans and suvs . 
each of these amendments was voted down by the republican majority on the committee , ensuring that the most technologically advanced nation in the world will continue to ignore energy conservation and not diminish its demand for oil . 
why is it that we can send a man to the moon and beyond but can not make our cars more efficient ? 
this is auto mechanics , not rocket science . 
i then offered an amendment in the resources committee to strip a provision from the bill that would open the arctic national wildlife refuge for oil drilling . 
the republicans on that committee voted against my amendment , choosing to set up a gas station in this pristine national refuge . 
if we allow drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge , we will forever ruin this unique wilderness and allow the oil industry to target all 540 national wildlife refuges for drilling and exploitation -- all for a few meager months worth of oil . 
furthermore , drilling in the refuge is completely unnecessary . 
if we were to increase the average fuel efficiency of cars , mini-vans and suv 's by only three miles per gallon , we would conserve more oil in ten years than could ever be produced by drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge . 
for the last five years i have led the battle in the house to stop the republicans in congress from selling off one of our greatest natural treasures to the powerful special interests . 
help me continue to fight to expose to the american people the dangers of this extreme and ineffective action by making a contribution today . 
today , i will offer these amendments again on the house floor . 
this series of votes is a critical moment for our country 's energy future . 
i need your help now to expose the travesty of this republican energy plan and ensure that this horrendous bill , rife with handouts to the special interests , is ultimately defeated . 
if this bill passes , we will create more pollution , forever spoil one of our most important and beautiful public lands and be forced to continue placing our soldiers in harm 's way in defense of oil in the middle east . 
help me continue to fight for a sensible , clean and independent energy future and shine a light on the republican party 's backroom attempts to cater to the special interests by making an immediate contribution . 
as justice louis brandies used to say , `` sunshine is the best disinfectant. '' thank your for your action , mr. chairman , the measure before us today -- the appropriations act for energy and water development -- joins the early wave of discretionary spending bills pursuant to the recently adopted budget resolution for fiscal year 2006 ( h. con . 
res. 95 ) . 
as the name suggests , this bill provides for the nation 's energy and water development needs , with funding for all of the department of energy , and select activities of the departments of defense and the interior , including the corps of engineers and the bureau of reclamation . 
while the government 's overall energy strategy is now being discussed in a conference on h.r. 6 , the bill before us today provides a vital additional component of the nation 's energy policies . 
as chairman of the budget committee , i am pleased to note that this bill complies with the budget resolution , and also reflects a responsible set of budgetary choices . 
although the appropriations committee provided more funding that the president in certain areas , they still achieved a modest but real reduction in total spending for this bill , compared with fiscal year 2005 . 
h.r. 2419 provides $ 29.7 billion in appropriations for fiscal year 2006 . 
this is $ 410 million , or 1.3 percent , below the fiscal year 2005 level , and equal to the president 's request . 
the bill complies with section 302 ( f ) of the budget act , which prohibits consideration of bills in excess of an appropriations subcommittee 's 302 ( b ) allocation of budget authority in the budget resolution . 
the bill provides $ 23.8 billion in discretionary ba to the department of energy [ doe ] , a reduction of $ 390 million from the 2005 enacted level . 
within the department , ba is reduced from the 2005 level by 2.6 percent for environmental and other defense activities ( $ 203 million ) , and 4 percent for the national nuclear security administration ( $ 365 million ) . 
but for energy programs , the bill provides a slight increase of 1.3 percent , or $ 98 million . 
h.r. 2419 provides $ 661 million for the yucca mountain repository , an increase of $ 84 million above 2005 and $ 10 million over the president 's request . 
funding for the department of the interior totals $ 933 million and discretionary spending for the bureau of reclamation holds flat relative to 2005 . 
for the corps of engineers , the committee provided $ 4.7 billion , or $ 396 million over the president 's request , primarily through additional construction and operations and maintenance spending , which together make up two-thirds of total corps of engineers spending . 
also , the appropriations committee rejected an initiative to directly fund the operations and maintenance costs through the power marketing associations ' revenues . 
h.r. 2419 does not contain any emergency-designated ba , which is exempt from budgetary limits . 
while the budget resolution for fiscal year 2006 , h. con . 
res. 95 , did allow for an advance appropriation in the elk hills account , the committee on appropriations provided for it with a current year appropriation . 
the bill also defers $ 257 million in previously appropriated funds for the clean coal technology initiative until fiscal year 2007 , providing $ 257 million in ba savings for 2006 , and an equal increase in 2007 . 
the administration proposed a rescission of this amount . 
additionally , the bill allows the nuclear regulatory commission [ nrc ] to recover 90 percent of its budget authority through licensing and annual fees , less the appropriation derived from the nuclear waste fund . 
this will recover a projected $ 581 million in fiscal year 2006 with remaining 10 percent , or $ 65 million , funded from the general fund of the treasury . 
in conclusion , i would like to commend chairman lewis and the appropriations committee on their steady work in bringing bills to the floor that comply with h. con . 
res. 95 and wish them continued success as they proceed through this appropriations season . 
i therefore express my support for h.r. 2419 . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time . 
i rise to support the rule and the underlying bill . 
as everyone knows , high energy costs are the greatest drag that we currently have on our economy and actually on world economy ; and every year we delay passing this legislation , we become more dependent on foreign oil . 
i would like to mention very quickly a small part of the energy bill which has to do with ethanol and biodiesel . 
the bill mandates 5 billion gallons of ethanol production by 2012 . 
interestingly enough , here this year , in 2005 , we will produce 4.5 billion , so we are almost there . 
next year , 2006 , we will produce well over 5 billion which will be 7 years before the end date of 2012 . 
so we have great capacity to do even better . 
ethanol today is produced in 20 different states , and i predict that within a few years , using biomass , all 50 states in the union will produce some form of ethanol . 
today the average price of a gallon of gasoline is reduced by 29 cents by the ethanol production that we now have . 
the average price around the country is about $ 2.20 . 
without ethanol today , it would be roughly $ 2.50 . 
ethanol increases the price of corn by between 25 and 50 cents a bushel . 
what is so big about that ? 
the important thing is , it reduces the cost of the farm bill because as prices of corn go up , we have fewer farm payments . 
so over the next 10 years ethanol production will reduce the cost of the farm bill by roughly $ 6 billion . 
it reduces the trade deficit by $ 64 billion over the next 8 years . 
it creates 243 , 000 jobs and adds $ 200 billion to gdp over the next 8 years . 
so it reduces our dependence on foreign oil . 
we think this is critical and has great potential . 
at the present time , brazil mandates 23 percent of their fuel supply be from ethanol . 
we certainly could hit 7 or 8 percent in this country . 
mr. speaker , i support the rule . 
madam speaker , i thank the gentlewoman for her leadership and also for offering some time and providing us the opportunity tonight to speak to the energy bill . 
i also compliment the gentleman from colorado ( mr. beauprez ) xz4000200 and the gentleman from texas ( mr. hall ) xz4001650 and the gentleman from nebraska ( mr. terry ) xz4004000 for the insights that they have given us tonight into the whole concept of the energy bill . 
we are not talking about a few of the hot points that the news media like to talk an awful lot about . 
i can not go through the process that we did last week in formulating this energy bill without thinking of a childhood poem , and it goes like this : `` i saw a group of men in my hometown , i saw a group of men tearing a building down . 
with a heave and a ho and a mighty yell , they swung a beam and a sidewalk fell . 
`` so i said to the foreman , `hey , are these men skilled , you know , the kind i 'd hire if i wanted to build ? 
' and he laughed and said , `why , no , indeed , common labor is all i need . 
for with common labor i can tear down in a day or two what it took a builder 10 years to do. ' and so i thought to myself as i walked away , which of those roles am i going to play ? 
`` the 109th congress , madam speaker , is deciding now what role we are going to play . 
are we going to build an energy future ? 
are we going to build an economic future for this great nation of ours and for future generations ? 
are we going to put in place today a public policy that will serve this nation in our competitive efforts with the rest of the world ? 
i can tell you there is no other place in the world that this argument is going on , of whether or not we are going to energize our natural resources , energize our native creative genius in order to provide the cheapest and the most abundant and most reliable energy source that we possibly can . 
yet this is a heartfelt debate . 
fortunately for us , with the leadership of our chairman , the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 , we were able to come out of the committee with a great energy bill and in a bipartisan fashion . 
in fact , i myself have voted on this energy bill . 
although i have only been in this congress for 4 years and 4 months , i have voted on the energy bill four times , with the great hope that was going to be one thing as a member from idaho 's first congressional district i could leave as a legacy . 
yet 4 years and 4 months later , we are still wanting and still faced with those who will tear down rather than build up . 
i would like to talk about something that has not gotten , i believe , the attention that it needs . 
as the gentlewoman from tennessee ( mrs. blackburn ) xz4000320 mentioned early on , we have not built a refinery in this nation in nearly 30 years . 
garyville , louisiana , was the last refinery we built in this nation , and yet every day we continue to consume more and more refined gas . 
so our capacity to consume is increasing , yet our capacity in relationship to produce and to refine is dwindling . 
thus , we are counting more and more and more for yet another strategic part of our value-added energy on some foreign country . 
madam speaker , last fall i went down to venezuela and visited hugo chavez . 
one of the reasons i did that was because there are several idaho concerns down there probably mining more coal than any place else in the word , and mining more silver and gold than any place else in the world . 
there is an exploration company that is environmentally responsible in their exploration and in their research and development for venezuela 's natural resources . 
one of the other reasons i went down there was to see where we are importing a million , 800 , 000 barrels of refined fuel a day . 
we import 14 million barrels a day . 
we use 21 million barrels a day . 
so for two-thirds of our consumption , we are now relying on some other country that may be friend or foe , and mr. chavez has already suggested he is not going to be really friendly towards us . 
yet we are still relying for two-thirds of the strategic element for our economy on some other nation . 
we are relying on their labor , their tax base . 
we are relying on building up their economy in order to support our own rather than doing that ourselves . 
part of this bill we are looking at today is environmentally streamlined permitting . 
we heard many , many times in the committee , as the gentlewoman from tennessee ( mrs. blackburn ) xz4000320 will be able to attest to , we heard many times from the opposition , those who would not build but rather tear down , that there is not one permit that is waiting to go through the bureaucratic process , not one permit in the united states . 
i would suggest there ought to be a reason and that we need to take a look at that . 
one of the reasons nobody gets a permit is they have been denied for so long . 
they are so expensive and have been denied for so long . 
one thing i found out in caracas , venezuela , every u.s. oil company that owns a refinery in the united states is down there today asking for a permit to build one in venezuela . 
there are permits being given throughout the world and permits being requested . 
unfortunately , they are being requested where they find a friendly permitting process , or a permitting process . 
and i asked the fellows at lunch that day , are you telling me it is easier to get a permit down here ? 
they said , no , environmentally speaking , we have to obey the same laws . 
safety-wise we have to obey the same laws . 
they are no different than the united states except it happens . 
it happens . 
in the united states you can sit around for months and years , and then decades before you finally get a permit . 
and that is just too lengthy and too costly a process . 
they said , we come down here and we can get a permit in 6 to 8 months . 
we have to bond it and do everything we do in the united states . 
the thing is , these people are working with us . 
that is why we are here permitting . 
the other thing that this bill looks to is something that a lot of people in the united states do not realize . 
if a refinery today , one in garyville , louisiana , should happen to come across some new technology and that new technology would say they could increase their efficiency or their production capacity or their yield , and it happens to be more than 10 percent , they do not want to do it . 
the reason they do not want to do it is our environmental laws authorized by the environmental protection agency would say that new 10 percent is new source . 
what new source means is you have to go back and permit the whole plant , not just the 10 percent increased , but you have to go back and permit 100 percent of the plant 's production . 
so they may have increased since 30 years ago when the last one was permitted , they may have increased 6 or 7 percent , but they do not want to go beyond that or it will be very expensive to go on . 
for our economy and for the jobs that are increased and energized and permitted , refinery capacity would do that for this country of ours . 
for all of the good that could happen , i would say it is time for us , and we will be deciding tomorrow who they are that want to build and who they are that want to tear down . 
i am proud to say that all the folks that you have listened to tonight are the ones that want to build . 
i am amongst them , and i am sure the majority will be tomorrow . 
madam speaker , i appreciate the opportunity to review some of the facts and figures that we have in the committee . 
i appreciate the gentleman 's question , that is , the amount of jobs of course that would be created . 
i am saying high-paying professional jobs , not only for the construction phase of building a new refinery which is millions and millions of dollars , but certainly for the operation phase . 
as we operate these refineries , we have more and more technology and we call upon these professionals for a higher degree of professionalism . 
as a result of that , we are not talking about some of these jobs that can simply be replaced at a moment 's notice . 
so one of the things that we have to do , along with the construction of the refinery , along with the potential operation of the refinery , is we have to prepare educating the chemical engineers in our colleges , and there have not been really jobs , at least in the united states that have been forthcoming because of the lack of appreciation , if you will , for the refinery business in the united states and for the gas and oil business in the united states . 
a lot of these high-paying jobs have gone overseas , as well as the education opportunities . 
we are going to have to incentivize our education system to gear up not only for the construction of the plants but for the potential operations of them . 
when you look down the road at it , it has got tremendous possibilities of what it can do for our economy . 
madam chairman , i rise today in support of the energy bill that we are discussing on the floor . 
madam chairman , the absolute truth is that americans are paying more at the pump today than ever before . 
home heating costs have escalated dramatically . 
these things are both reflections of the lack of an energy policy . 
all we are suggesting in this energy bill is that we need to recognize the dynamic forces that are at play in today 's economy , and that we need to take steps to correct it . 
for instance , natural gas in this nation is hovering in the $ 7 range , but if we look over in the asian areas and in russia , it is 95 cents and 70 cents . 
what is happening is that we are outsourcing jobs to those other nations because they are paying one-tenth the price for natural gas that we are paying here , and yet our friends on the other side of the aisle some days want to talk about outsourcing jobs and the horrific effect that it has on the economy ; and today we are doing something factual about it , and yet they want to turn an eye and say , that is okay , send those jobs ; we probably did not need them to start with . 
they would have us believe that what we are facing and what we are giving is simply a handout to the oil companies , and what we are doing is simply trying to develop new sources of oil that is extremely expensive to reach . 
we are drilling on some offshore platforms that cost billions of dollars to set in place . 
we are drilling on those with great risk that we will lose money , and what we are simply saying is that deep well incentives should be in place . 
now , the incentives that are in place for onshore production are either very difficult areas to drill in or the incentives only kick in after the price falls to a certain level . 
madam chairman , it is time for us to pass an energy bill . 
the consumers in this nation depend on it , and they are depending on republicans because our friends on the other side of the aisle refuse to help . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of the abercrombie amendment . 
what we are engaged in today is just trying to find commonsense suggestions to really sustain the american way of life . 
affordable energy , affordable agriculture are two things that sustain the american way of life . 
this accomplishes good work toward both . 
i will submit more comments for the record . 
but i do want to support the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the abercrombie amendment . 
this amendment will authorize a modest program to develop ethanol from sugar cane , which would be added to fuel in hawaii to meet the epa clean air act requirements for oxygenated fuels . 
the state of hawaii also mandated a 10 percent ethanol blend for gasoline in the state in order to improve the state 's air quality . 
hawaii must meet federal standards for clean air by mandating clean burning fuel . 
ethanol is currently the only acceptable ingredient to blend with gasoline to meet clean air act requirements . 
unfortunately for hawaii the dominant crop is sugar instead of corn . 
if hawaii grew corn , they would already be receiving tax credits for ethanol production like almost every other state in the nation . 
according to the congressional research service the tax credits for ethanol production will total more than $ 1.4 billion . 
congress annually provides tax credits , research funding and grants to turn rice straw , biomass , agriculture waste , woody debris and corn into ethanol . 
congress is spending billions to increase our nation 's production and consumption of ethanol from every source imaginable . 
congress has decided ethanol production is worthwhile , and has provided at least $ 10 billion in incentives and tax credits since 1978 when an alcohol tax exemption was made law . 
congress should pass this amendment in order to have a consistent ethanol policy . 
mr. chairman , i urge passage of this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time . 
i would support the amendment . 
as an oil and gas service company , we did not actually own oil and gas wells , but we owned a company that repaired the wells . 
my wife and i faced the problem daily of where to find employees and how to retain those employees . 
in the 1999-2000 period , the price of oil fell to $ 6 for new mexico type of oil . 
revenues in service companies like ours fell to 20 percent of the original values . 
although my wife and i were able to keep every employee for the duration of that period of time , about 11 months , many , many of the firms laid off 68 to 70 percent of their employees and gave pay cuts in the industry . 
that is the sort of cyclical thing that we face in the oil and gas industry , and now that the price has come back up , literally there are no workers to be had because they do not wanted to come back to a cyclical industry . 
we face limitations on production based on the lack of availability of labor . 
so i think that this important study should be done to find out where we can get labor , where we can get solutions to simply keep our oil fields working . 
the viability of our oil fields really is going to determine the price of natural gas and petroleum in this economy . 
i think the gentleman 's amendment is well placed , and again , i would heartily endorse it and request members to vote for it . 
madam chairman , i think i am on a different bill than i just heard described here . 
i applaud the energy efficiency and conservation in this bill . 
i applaud the increasing of renewable technologies in this bill . 
i applaud the hydrogen fuel cell program in this bill . 
i applaud the next-generation nuclear in this bill . 
i applaud the clean coal technology . 
i applaud the incentives for deep gas drilling . 
that is the one issue i do not think we do enough in this bill . 
i believe we need to do much more to increase the supply of natural gas , and i hope in conference we can . 
current natural gas prices are exporting thousands of american jobs , the best jobs we have , the chemical plants , fertilizer factories , and those who melt steel and ore and use a lot of national gas . 
we as a country have an island to ourselves with natural gas ; they are not world prices . 
when everybody pays $ 50 for oil , we have the highest prices for natural gas of all modern countries , and we are losing the companies who use large quantities of it . 
just to compare , we are 40 percent higher on natural gas than europe . 
we are 50 percent higher than japan . 
we are 600 percent higher than south america . 
we are 800 percent higher than russia . 
we heat our homes , our schools , our hospitals , and our businesses with natural gas . 
it is the bridge to hydrogen . 
all hydrogen today generally is made from natural gas ; it is the easiest way to make it . 
it can assist us in transportation , with our buses , taxi cabs , delivery trucks , by using natural gas rather than oil . 
we need , in the final bill , to have a much stronger chapter with natural gas ; it is the one area that i think we need stronger in this bill . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of this bipartisan amendment . 
if we want a national energy policy that is truly about economic security for all americans , not just those in the auto industry , that is about national security for all americans , it needs to be comprehensive . 
it needs to be about hybrid vehicles , alternative fuels , renewable fuels . 
it needs to be about better using our resources we have . 
but it also needs to be about conservation . 
this amendment is one of the greatest steps we can take in the area of going forward in conservation . 
it is not about whether you should be able to buy an suv . 
it is about whether you should be able to buy an suv that gets 27.5 miles per gallon like a car does instead of 20.7 . 
it is about choice and efficiency . 
this amendment is a good amendment . 
i urge a `` yes '' vote . 
i commend the prime sponsors of the amendment for bringing it before the house . 
madam chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from nevada ( mr. gibbons ) xz4001480 , the subcommittee chairman . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from new mexico ( mr. pearce ) xz4003130 , the subcommittee vice chairman . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. peterson ) xz4003171 . 
madam chairman , i yield 2 1/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from wyoming ( mrs. cubin ) xz4000880 , the full committee vice chairwoman . 
madam chairman , may i inquire as to how much time is remaining . 
madam chairman , i yield the balance of my time to myself . 
i guess here we go again . 
you know , we have had the opportunity in the house four or five times to debate the energy bill . 
and i look at the history of energy policy in this country and the efforts of congress to try to deal with the very real energy demands that we have today in this country . 
we are not providing enough energy to meet the demands that we have . 
you know , you go back 30 years ago , and the united states was dependent on foreign energy about 30 percent . 
about 30 percent of our oil came from foreign sources . 
we did very little to deal with that . 
there was a pledge made by then-president carter that we were going to become independent . 
the president and succeeding presidents have talked about becoming independent from foreign oil . 
but we did not adopt the kind of policies that we had to to increase the amount of domestic production so that we were not so dependent on foreign oil . 
i look at it today and nearly two-thirds of the energy that we consume in this country comes from foreign countries . 
and that is a direct result of the failure on the part of congress to pass a national energy policy . 
we have not addressed that . 
i look at what we are doing wrong in terms of producing additional energy in this country . 
and i think if you listen to the debate from some of my colleagues , you know what we are doing wrong . 
yeah , you know , we did not have a lot of dinosaurs die under yosemite or yellowstone , you are right ; but we had a whole heck a lot of them die in the arctic plains . 
there is oil and gas in alaska . 
it is there . 
we all know it is there . 
and yet we still have the same people year after year after year coming down , whether gas is $ 20 a barrel or $ 60 a barrel they are still opposed to doing it . 
we have the same people come down here year after year after year that opposed putting a pipeline to move that gas from alaska to the lower 48 states . 
we have the same people who come to the floor year after year and oppose every single attempt that is made to increase the amount of energy produced in this country . 
year after year they oppose it . 
last year we had an amendment to make it easier to site renewable energy on federal lands . 
and the same people that are down here today opposing this bill opposed that bill on renewable energy . 
yeah , you know , it all sounds great . 
you can come down here and talk about how we need more renewable energy . 
but when you have a chance to vote for it , you vote no ; and you do it every single time . 
you know , we hear this over and over again . 
you know , when the bill moved through the committee , we had 20 or 25 amendments . 
not a single one of those amendments was a partisan vote , a party-line vote . 
every single one of them we had members of the minority and majority that joined together to either pass or defeat the amendment . 
there was so much support for this bill coming out of the resources committee , it passed on a voice vote . 
every time that we get this bill up before the house , it passes with both majority and minority votes . 
there is support for doing this . 
i ask my colleagues with $ 55 a barrel oil , do you not think it is time that you did something ? 
if you do not like this bill , where is your alternative ? 
because as of yet all you do is the same old rhetoric . 
madam chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from texas ( mr. gene green ) . 
madam chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from nevada ( mr. gibbons ) xz4001480 . 
madam chairman , i yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from alaska ( mr. young ) xz4004401 , chairman of the committee on transportation and infrastructure . 
madam chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 , chairman of the committee on energy and commerce . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from california ( mr. nunes ) xz4002970 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from texas ( mr. burgess ) xz4000520 . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of the time . 
mr. chairman , i ask unanimous consent to claim the time on our side . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i urge support of the amendment . 
the resources committee accepts the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the davis-waxman amendment to h.r. 6 . 
mr. chairman , i could stand here all day and discuss some of the problems that are currently plaguing the department of energy , but as chairman of the subcommittee on the federal workforce and agency organization within the committee on government reform , i am growing more and more convinced the department of energy is not only experiencing problems relating to how to remove nuclear waste , but also other energy-related projects . 
now is not the time to be introducing two new assistant secretaries at the department of energy . 
i firmly believe that adding additional layers of bureaucracy to this department will only serve to cause more problems , rather than to solve problems . 
mr. chairman , when the committee on government reform and the subcommittee were considering the energy bill , i introduced an amendment to strip this position . 
my amendment was supported unanimously by the full committee . 
my colleagues recognized that with the current existence of a culture of mismanagement , now is not the time to create additional bureaucracy . 
i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this bipartisan amendment . 
mr. chairman , section 1287 of h.r. 6 includes permissive rulemaking authority for the federal trade commission to adopt rules protecting the privacy of electric consumers from the disclosure of consumer information obtained in connection with the sale or delivery of electric energy to electric customers . 
am i correct , sir , in understanding that it was the committee 's intent to grant the ftc rulemaking authority with respect to the information practices of utility companies not already regulated , or to the extent they are not already regulated , under the gramm-leach-bliley act ? 
am i further correct that it was not the intention that utility companies be restricted in their ability to report payment history information to consumer reporting agencies ? 
sir , am i further correct that it was not your intention that the ftc be given broad rulemaking authority with respect to the goods or services that can be offered to a customer simply because the customer uses electricity , but rather the ftc has the authority to regulate the offering or billing of products or services by utility companies ? 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for his clarifications and for his assistance and the assistance of his staff in this situation . 
mr. chairman , i do rise in opposition to this amendment . 
the committee on resources opposes this amendment because of problems with a definition within the amendment that will prohibit many private landowners from participating in this program . 
while the intent of this amendment is laudable , in reality it is nothing more than an attempt to grant special treatment to one company , with one facility , in one state . 
this also does remind me of an important issue in a different part of the bill that is not part of this amendment , and that is title ii , which contains a crucial provision that will benefit our nation regarding hydropower relicensing . 
hydropower is a reliable , secure , and clean source of power . 
because it generates electricity through an electrochemical reaction instead of simple combustion , hydroelectricity helps reduce air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions linked to global warming . 
hydropower is also america 's leading renewable energy source , accounting for well over 80 percent of our renewable electricity . 
hydropower can be harnessed to generate electricity for homes , industry , and offices , leaving little more than steam as a by-product . 
the hydrorelicensing provision in title ii stimulates hydroelectric energy growth by improving the relicensing process between federal resource agencies and their licensees . 
it does so by striking a balance between environmental concerns and energy production in hydro projects . 
these critical facilities are too often strangled by unsound and unproven mandates that choke hydroelectric production . 
in the next 15 years , hydroelectric facilities that serve over 30 million homes must undergo relicensing . 
the relicensing process must be modified before our nation 's hydropower resources lose the ability to provide clean , emission-free energy to america 's energy consumers . 
the fact that federal resource agencies mandate restrictive conditions on the operations of hydropower projects , without comprehensive analysis of their impacts or an independent review of these conditions , is unacceptable . 
regulation of the hydro industry is plagued by uncertainty , duplication , and contradiction . 
further , the licensing process for hydroelectricity is cumbersome , confusing , and costly , with no one party acting as a final arbiter of the competing interests involved in the project . 
this language will result in greater interaction between the resource agencies and licensees , great flexibility in the development of environmental measures , and create an increased efficiency in the way we produce safe hydroelectric energy . 
i want to thank our chairman , the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 , for including this provision in the bill . 
it will greatly benefit our nation , and for that reason i oppose the amendment before us . 
mr. chairman , you know you can not make a fat guy skinny by mandating smaller pant sizes . 
people have to want to buy the vehicle that you are trying to sell them . 
there is a reason that moms go through the pain and agony of buying an suv and a mini-van , because they are safe , because they can get their whole family in there , because they can put a bike in the back , and they can get all the groceries in there . 
they buy them because they want them and they are safe . 
the automobile companies today do not get enough credit for all of the money they are investing in trying to make these things efficient . 
believe me , if they could get 40 miles to the gallon in an suv , they would be on these front steps having a press conference selling these things . 
technology has not matched what consumers want . 
let them do that . 
you artificially interfere with where we are going , they are making huge strides . 
to do this costs americans jobs . 
it costs americans jobs . 
let them do what they are doing best , and innovate their way to those high-mileage suvs and mini-vans so moms do not have to drive mini coopers . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the distinguished gentlewoman from michigan ( ms. kilpatrick ) xz4002170 . 
mr. chairman , parliamentary inquiry , how do we get to the chairman 's 2 1/2 minutes remaining on the primary amendment ? 
mr. chairman , i yield myself 2 minutes . 
mr. chairman , i want to thank the sponsors of the amendment and their intent and where they wanted to go . 
the gentlewoman from connecticut ( mrs. johnson ) xz4002051 has done a great job of focusing on a problem that is a problem . 
we all want accurate numbers on those stickers and times have changed . 
the gentleman from michigan and the gentlewoman from michigan , i think , have outlined exceptionally well why this perfecting amendment makes the intent of what our colleague wants to do exactly that . 
it clarifies it to the point that we do not get into cafe , we get accurate numbers , and we do not foist a whole set of new costs onto automakers who are today struggling to keep people employed . 
we want accurate numbers as well . 
but i will tell you , families across this country are suffering in the automobile industry . 
they are suffering . 
they have layoffs , they have job cuts , there is a lack of hope in some areas and anxiety you can not believe in others . 
so let us err on the side of those families . 
let us stand up today and say , yes , we should have accurate numbers on these stickers , the very true intent of what the gentlewoman from connecticut ( mrs. johnson ) xz4002051 and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. holt ) xz4001840 are trying to do and trying to accomplish . 
let us do that , but we can do that without new costs , without new burdens , without even getting close to this argument that they are going to get into in the cafe debate , and accomplish exactly what they want . 
i think my colleagues can be proud of this amendment , as amended , back in their districts and tell people that they fought valiantly to get the 2005 standards on stickers for cars they are going to buy today . 
it is the right thing to do . 
so i would urge my colleague to look deep down and say , do i want to take the chance that i will put out one more american family out of work ? 
because i think you will . 
i passionately believe you will , the way your amendment is constructed . 
it will foist new , unnecessary costs on automakers . 
let us do it the way we know can accomplish what you want and have families at the end of the day saying , i am going to show up and build the finest cars in the world right here , in the great state of michigan , or any other of the 49 great states of this great country . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the distinguished gentleman from michigan ( mr. schwarz ) xz4006370 , a great public servant . 
mr. chairman , the gentleman from michigan , a medical doctor , said it all so well , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding me this time . 
i want to talk about a very important issue that should appeal to all republicans and democrats in this house , and that is gas prices . 
one provision that is included in this bill , the boutique fuel reduction act , is very , very important to reducing the price spikes that we are experiencing . 
let me just explain . 
this map right here of america looks like a piece of modern art . 
it shows you all of the different fuels we have running around america . 
because of the clean air act , a very good law , we never thought about having a federal fuel system , so today we have 18 different base blends of gasoline ; throw the different octanes in there , we have 45 different fuels . 
so we have a full distribution system , national in scope ; we have pipelines and refineries that are meant to put one fuel out there for america that was built in the 1950s , 1960s , and 1970s , which was the last time that it was upgraded . 
now , when we go from winter blend to summer blend gasoline , we throw all of these different blends into the system . 
what that does for all of our consumers , our constituents , is it makes those boutique fuels short in supply and therefore high in price . 
it makes the system which is running at full capacity very vulnerable to price spikes if there is any hiccup in supply . 
this map of 45 different blends is a result . 
the current ozone nonattainment areas , the blue areas on this map , 217 counties . 
but now with the new 8-hour ozone rule which has been released last year , takes effect in 2 years , 474 counties in america will now be out of attainment with respect to the ozone rule . 
that is the red counties . 
that means we go from 217 counties to 474 counties that will have to select new blends of gasoline . 
what this bill does is it says let us get some common sense to this system . 
let us have the department of energy and the epa figure out a federal fuel system so we can maintain our clean air standards , but standardize our fuel blends so we can stabilize our supply of gasoline and therefore stabilize our price of gasoline . 
if there is a problem in supply overnight , an immediate problem like we had in arizona last year , wisconsin on a couple of times with a pipeline break or a refinery fire , the epa has waiver authority on a 20-day basis to fix that . 
the second thing we do is we cap the amount of fuel blends so the problem does not get any worse now that we are running to the 8-hour rules . 
we can have clean air and cheap gas at the same time , mr. speaker . 
that is what this bill does . 
i urge adoption of this rule and this bill . 
mr. chairman , the energy policy before us is comprehensive and timely . 
it bolsters the economy while preserving the environment , recognizing that one need not be sacrificed for the other . 
in addressing both present and future concerns , this plan provides real improvements to our energy policy with the goal of reducing our dependence on foreign oil . 
this bill looks inward by expanding our refinery capacities and tapping into our domestic resources in an environmentally safe way . 
this will help provide relief for rising gas prices and begin to safeguard us against the whims of opec . 
beyond traditional energy , this plan promotes the development of renewable fuels . 
by approving this bill , we will do much for the development and expansion of alternative fuels . 
for example , the increased use of ethanol will not only reduce our dependence on foreign oil but will also benefit our economy and environment . 
farmers in kansas and across the country stand ready to help with this effort . 
we have gone without a national energy plan for far too long . 
we must act now and finally pass this forward-looking energy plan into law . 
mr. chairman , i am mindful of the limitations that the appropriations committee is under when funding project requests for the army corps of engineers . 
i am also aware , however , that the committee works closely with the corps in this process , and that funding decisions are based largely on the priorities put forward by the corps . 
with this in mind , i am very disappointed that the energy and water appropriations bill that we approved today did not contain funding for the cleanup of a logjam on jacobs creek in my district in coffey county , kansas . 
i am disappointed because i have made it abundantly clear to the corps on numerous occasions that i hear more from constituents about this project than any other corps project in my district . 
further , i have asked the corps to make it one of their highest priorities when it comes to funds spent in my district . 
this logjam began in 1973 , but has only in recent years escalated to such a problematic level . 
currently , the logjam covers an expanse of more than two miles . 
along this stretch , boat docks are useless and garbage is trapped in the sediment . 
the clog poses not only a health and safety hazard to area residents , but it also threatens the economic viability of the region . 
if the corps had given this request the priority it deserved , it would have received funding . 
the absence of funding for this project in the bill leads me to conclude that the corps has once again looked the other way . 
i am disappointed that this crucial project has once again been ignored and i call on the corps to put their resources to work and remedy this situation . 
i fully intend to continue working to see that this project is funded in the final version of this bill . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 for yielding me this time and for his great work on this bill . 
it sounds like it is not the bill that i voted on , but i am very pleased to support it . 
there is no more important bill in my time here in congress than the bill we are addressing today , and there is no more important bill for the state of illinois than the bill we are addressing today . 
it makes all of the years of our work pay off because i think this time we will get it across the finish line because it meets the demands of the country . 
we have to diversify our energy portfolio . 
we can no longer rely on one fuel source , whether it is for electricity generation or to move our vehicles . 
we have to diversify our energy portfolio , and that is what this bill does . 
this bill brings clean coal technology , strengthens nuclear power ; and it actually helps renewable power in the aspect of wind power . 
it does great things for relicensing hydroelectric power . 
it helps expand the transmission grid and block the backlogs that helped cause the major blackout that we had 2 years ago . 
it addresses a diversified energy portfolio on fuels . 
it brings renewable fuels to the forefront in this debate . 
gasoline is $ 2.20 , $ 2.30 . 
consumers can buy e-85 ethanol fuel for $ 1.65 a gallon . 
so what we have been doing in the past is working . 
this bill addresses the supply end , and it also addresses the demand end . 
we have to have a national energy policy . 
we can no longer allow the country to not have a plan . 
i am excited about an opportunity to pass this bill on the floor tomorrow , move it to conference , and get it to the president 's desk . 
i want to commend the bipartisan majority that passed it out of the committee , and commend the chairman for his work . 
mr. chairman , i always enjoy following my colleague . 
he is very impassioned . 
he is just wrong on this . 
the picture that the gentleman put up , he wants it offshore and wants it piped in . 
one of the most crazy things ever to happen to me is i am sitting in my office and the energy company comes in . 
they are excited about building an lng facility in the bahamas and they want to pipe this natural gas in to florida . 
now , who gets the tax revenue from that facility ? 
not the united states . 
who will get the jobs from that facility ? 
not the united states . 
who is going to get energy security from that facility ? 
not the united states . 
who has a problem with a pipeline underneath the ocean ? 
we do . 
i just can not believe that we want to give up the jobs , the energy security , and the ability to have these facilities in the united states and put them in remote areas , many of them outside the continental united states . 
if we want good jobs , we want lower prices , we want to help our farmers with lower fertilizer deals , we have to defeat this amendment . 
mr. speaker , i demand a recorded vote . 
mr. speaker , as the summer driving season is set to begin , gasoline prices are at a record high . 
while some continue to blame the bush administration and the republicans in congress , the truth is that neither is responsible for the record highs . 
the reason for the high gas prices includes the cost of crude oil due to a worldwide explosion in demand , the lack of refinery processing capacity , and the overregulation here in washington . 
the house will get the opportunity to address this problem this week with the house bringing to the floor the energy policy act of 2005 , h.r. 6 . 
the long-awaited legislation contains a number of provisions that would lower gas prices . 
h.r. 6 encourages more domestic production of oil with incentives such as a streamlined permit process , promotes a greater refining capacity to bring more oil to market , and increases the gasoline supply by stopping the proliferation of expensive regional boutique fuels . 
the department of energy predicts by 2025 u.s. oil and natural gas demand will rise by 46 percent , with energy demand increasing 1 percent for every 2 percent in gdp growth . 
critics of h.r. 6 claim that it would do little to curb consumption or drive down prices . 
in fact , this legislation includes provisions to do just that . 
in order to scale back demand for oil , the proposal encourages vehicles powered by hydrogen fuel cells and increases funding for the department of transportation to work to improve fuel efficiency standards . 
furthermore , it authorizes $ 200 million for the clean cities program which will provide grants to state and local governments to acquire alternative-fueled vehicles . 
curbing demand is necessary , but it is not nearly enough to lower the price of gas . 
we also need to increase domestic production of oil . 
ending our dependence on foreign oil is not only important to the economy but also doubly important to national security . 
currently , the u.s. imports about 60 percent of its oil . 
the department of energy projects this number will increase to 73 percent by 2025 . 
in order to ensure reliable and secure supplies of oil , we have no choice but simply to increase our domestic supply . 
domestic energy production must be increased without compromising a clean environment . 
there have been giant leaps in technology that would produce oil and natural gas in an environmentally safe manner . 
we need a comprehensive energy policy that recognizes that sophisticated new technology greatly reduces adverse impacts on the environment by exploration and production . 
along with the incredible advances in technology , transportation , and medicine that improve our lives comes the increased need for energy . 
in addition , overregulation by the government also contributes to regional and seasonal price fluctuations that increase costs and , of course , reduce flexibility to meet consumer demand . 
according to the energy information agency , last year refining costs represented about 20 percent of the retail cost of gasoline . 
by simply scaling back the excessive and cumbersome federal regulations on refiners , we could significantly reduce these costs . 
for example , the 1990 clean air act amendments mandate the sale of cleaner burning reformulated gasoline in order to reduce summer smog in nine major metropolitan areas . 
the law also requires that rfg contain at least 2 percent oxygen by weight . 
to comply with these regulations , refiners must switch from winter grade fuel to costlier summer blend gasoline . 
according to the federal trade commission , this adds 4 cents to 8 cents per gallon to the price of gasoline . 
likewise , complying with a national low sulfur gasoline regulation for passenger cars not only represents scientific challenges for refiners but also could adversely affect gasoline supply and , of course , availability . 
the industry will need to invest more than $ 8 billion over the next 3 years to meet this requirement , which will result in higher prices at the pump . 
this hodgepodge of customized fuel requirements increases production costs which are ultimately reflected in the price of gasoline that we pay today . 
these varied gasoline specifications also restrict the ability of refiners and distributors to move supplies around the country in response to local and , of course , regional shortages . 
high gas prices affect every sector of the american economy and especially hit families the hardest . 
congress has been debating and debating this issue for too long . 
we now have the chance to enact this week comprehensive energy legislation that will go a long way to lower the cost of gasoline . 
we need to fully embrace this opportunity before it is too late . 
mr. chairman , here we go again . 
as i said , this is the third time , and it should be a charm . 
we have passed this comprehensive legislation before ; and i know i speak for a lot of my colleagues , probably on both sides of the aisle , that we should finally move forward after the large increases in gasoline . 
this is a timely piece of legislation . 
the department of energy predicts by the year 2025 , u.s. oil and natural gas demand will rise by 46 percent with energy demand increasing 1 percent for every 2 percent in gdp growth . 
this increase in demand at home , coupled with the explosion of demand worldwide , has led to the increase in the cost of crude oil . 
to combat this , and the resulting record gas prices , the american people today are looking for congress to act and we are doing it . 
this legislation contains a number of provisions that would lower gas prices . 
h.r. 6 encourages more domestic production of oil , promotes a greater refining capacity , and increases the gasoline supply by stopping the proliferation of expensive regional boutique fuels . 
mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 6 and finally enact solid , comprehensive energy legislation for the american people . 
mr. chairman , here we go again . 
as they say , the third time 's the charm . 
this is the third congress in a row we have tried to pass comprehensive energy legislation . 
i know i speak for many of my colleagues in saying i hope we can finally move forward and enact this very important and increasingly timely legislation . 
as we all know too well , energy is the lifeblood of the economy . 
the availability of energy at reasonable prices is key to economic growth and stability . 
comprehensive national energy policy must ensure affordable , reliable energy and also promote national security . 
h.r. 6 does that and i urge all my colleagues to support it . 
the department of energy predicts that by the year 2025 , u.s. oil and natural gas demand will rise by 46 percent , with energy demand increasing 1 percent for every 2 percent growth in gdp . 
this increased demand at home , coupled with an explosion of demand worldwide , has lead to an increase in the cost of crude oil . 
to combat this and the resulting record gas prices , the american people are looking to congress to act . 
this legislation contains a number of provisions that would lower gas prices . 
h.r. 6 encourages more domestic production of oil , promotes a greater refining capacity , and increases the gasoline supply by stopping the proliferation of expensive regional boutique fuels . 
ending our dependence on foreign oil is not only important to the economy but also doubly important to national security . 
currently , the u.s. imports about 60 percent of its oil . 
the department of energy projects this number will increase to 73 percent by the year 2025 . 
in order to ensure reliable and secure supplies of oil , we have no choice but to increase the domestic supply . 
another way h.r. 6 increases domestic production of oil is by opening anwr to oil and gas exploration . 
usgs estimates that there is between 5.7 and 16.0 billion barrels of oil that is technically recoverable . 
this estimate does not take into account that with new technology , the share will become higher . 
a resource of this magnitude can not simply be ignored . 
h.r. 6 goes a long way to end our reliance on foreign oil . 
i once again urge my colleagues to support h.r. 6 and finally enact solid , comprehensive energy legislation for the american people . 
mr. speaker , we need an energy policy desperately in this country . 
we needed it 30 years ago . 
this is an excellent bill . 
it addresses the energy policy in a very comprehensive way . 
it addresses oil and gas . 
it addresses conservation which people over here say it does not , and it does ; environmental issues , electrical , hydropower , everything is addressed , nuclear . 
it is a very comprehensive bill . 
and we need this for many perspectives , but most importantly passing this very important bill is important for national security issues as well as jobs and economic development . 
you know , people talk about high gas prices in this country , and people go back to their districts and say that gas is high . 
well , one way we can reduce the cost of gasoline for everyone in this country is we expand refining capacity in this country . 
and we address this in this bill . 
right now our refineries are operating at almost maximum capacity . 
like our chairman said in the committee , if we added five new refineries today in america , it still would not address the demand that we have . 
in many instances when we do get oil and gas drilled here domestically , sometimes we have to send that oil to another country to refine it , and we buy it back at a higher value . 
that is what third world countries do , and we need to stop that . 
it is very important that we address the anwr situation , and open anwr . 
and a lot of the environmentalists will say , we can not do that , it might hurt some species of some animal or insect . 
but we need to think of the human species from time to time . 
if we open anwr , if you put it in perspective , if it was the size of the ou football field , the area that we are talking about drilling in would be the size of a postage stamp on that football field . 
and the beauty of it is , we can produce oil , experts say , at least 2 million barrels a day out of anwr , and that is exactly what we were importing from saddam hussein in iraq before all of this 9/11 happened . 
it is asinine that we rely so much on foreign oil , especially in areas around the world that we have carpet-bombed . 
it is ridiculous . 
so we need to spur domestic production , support this very important comprehensive energy bill that is for jobs and economic development , as well as a national security issue for this country . 
i urge my colleagues to support it . 
mr. speaker , i rise in support of the rule and the bill . 
this legislation is perhaps the most important bill we will deal with in this session . 
the lack of a comprehensive energy plan is hurting our families and our economy . 
global energy demand is soaring , america 's natural resources are finite and flat , rising energy imports are driving record trade deficits as runaway energy costs drag down the u.s. economy . 
unless we implement a long-term , comprehensive energy plan , americans will pay even more to heat their homes , drive their cars to work , and feed their families and provide other essentials for our loved ones . 
for the members of this chamber , this bill is our opportunity to ensure a better future . 
the committee on energy and commerce , along with other committees of jurisdiction , have produced an energy bill that recognizes today 's needs while preparing for the future . 
to meet today 's energy needs , this legislation does several things . 
it expands the nation 's natural gas supply , primarily by clarifying the federal government 's role in lng facilities . 
it increases our supplies of gasoline and diesel by adding new refineries , limiting the number of specialty blends , and establishing a 5-billion-gallon renewable fuel standard . 
this energy bill adds diversity to our energy portfolio by encouraging more nuclear power , clean coal , and renewable energies . 
it doubles our efforts in energy conservation and efficiency , it reduces america 's dangerous dependence on foreign oil , and improves our nation 's electrical transmissions . 
but this energy bill looks beyond the horizon as well . 
by boosting the use of hydrogen fuel cells , microturbines , and other forms of new energy technologies , we can begin preparing to meet the energy demands of tomorrow . 
i was proud to work with my colleague from across the aisle , the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. doyle ) xz4001140 to double the authorized funding for this year 's hydrogen title . 
it is just one of many forward-thinking provisions in this legislation . 
the energy sector represents a $ 650 billion piece of the american economy . 
it is the engine that powers other sectors of the u.s. economy , and i urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on the rule and the bill . 
madam speaker , i do appreciate the gentlewoman from tennessee yielding some to me so we can talk about what i think is one of the most important bills that we will vote on in the 109th congress , and that is a comprehensive energy package . 
as the gentlewoman from tennessee mentioned , this bill is both forward thinking and now thinking . 
there are alternative technologies . 
there is i think an incredible statement toward renewable fuels and alternative technologies like the fuel cell , but we also have to recognize some of our issues that face us now , and what i am talking about is the price of natural gas and how it is impacting our economy and our families in america , especially agri business and small businesses . 
natural gas , by the way , accounts for nearly a quarter of america 's energy supply and is used by more than half of the households and businesses in america . 
in fact , in my district of omaha , nebraska , about 65 percent of the households are heated , and by the way , it gets cold , maybe not like in the gentlewoman 's part of tennessee , it gets pretty cold in omaha during the winter , and we rely on natural gas . 
unfortunately , the united states faces a natural gas challenge that threatens the profitability of almost every sector of our economy , as well as our citizens ' quality of life . 
nationwide natural gas prices just 5 years ago were $ 1.50 per thousand cubic feet . 
today , as this chart shows , it is off the charts . 
it is over $ 7 and has been for the last two to three weeks . 
let us look at how the united states ' natural gas prices compare to the rest of the world . 
in venezuela , it is about 70 cents per thousand cubic feet , 40 cents in africa , 80 cents in russia . 
the next , by the way , is europe with $ 3.70 , less than half of what we pay in the united states . 
farm states , including nebraska , have been hit especially hard by higher natural gas prices since natural gas is the primary material in nitrogen fertilizers , as well as the key fuel for irrigation and drying of grains . 
anhydrous ammonia fertilizer has increased from about $ 175 per ton in 2000 to as much as $ 375 last planting season . 
about half of america 's nitrogen fertilizer is now imported . 
let me restate that . 
nearly half of our farmers ' nitrogen fertilizer is now imported , mostly due to these high costs of natural gas . 
this is going to have a severe impact on our economy and for our farmers . 
the increased cost of natural gas has played a substantial role in losing nearly 3 million u.s. manufacturing jobs over the last 5 years , according to the industrial energy consumers of america . 
whether these jobs were located in an auto plant in ohio or a petrochemical manufacturer in houston , many have been moved overseas , chasing the cheaper natural gas where it is more abundant and plentiful . 
these reasons for concern are magnified when one considers u.s. natural gas consumption is expected to increase over the next 20 years . 
simultaneously , domestic natural gas production is falling about 1 percent a year . 
let me show my colleagues this chart . 
we actually have a decent supply of natural gas , but most of it is off limits and stays off limits in this bill , especially around the coastal regions of california and florida . 
we do encourage some additional domestic production of natural gas . 
last year , this congress passed a pipeline from alaska down to chicago , but i am telling my colleagues , looking at the politics in alaska , this may take decades before that pipeline is run from alaska to the continental united states to provide some price relief for our economy and for heating our homes . 
so we must look at these natural gas prices in a holistic way , meaning domestic production , pipeline , and we still have to realize that to meet the increased needs of natural gas within our united states , we are going to unfortunately have to import some of our natural gas . 
otherwise , if we do not look at it in a holistic way , domestic , alaskan pipeline and liquid natural gas imports , natural gas prices may increase to $ 13 or $ 14 per thousand cubic feet . 
unfortunately , to import liquid natural gas , we have got about three or four facilities today . 
there are many applications to site liquid natural gas to an import terminal where the liquid natural gas comes in , it goes in , it is unloaded , it is turned into a gas and then put into pipelines , but we are experiencing the typical not-in-my-backyard with some extreme overexaggerations of the dangerousness of liquid natural gas . 
because localities and states have played on this fear , those localities , in fact , in maine , a locality even , though the states have issued permits , are approved permits , a locality stops an lng terminal . 
this forces us to have to look at different ways . 
in this base bill , we in the committee on energy and commerce worked on this together in committee . 
we recognized that what we have to do is streamline this process . 
if we are going to help alleviate the pressures on price , we have to give more authority for this international and national commerce to the federal energy regulatory commission . 
we want the states to have a part in here . 
what we just do not want is for the states and localities , based on nimby , to have veto power . 
this is in the base bill . 
tomorrow , we are going to have a movement by a gentleman from massachusetts and delaware to strip out this provision , and it is only going to hurt manufacturers , small businesses , agri business and people who heat their homes with natural gas , companies that generate electricity by natural gas . 
we must overcome this provision tomorrow for the overall economic and basically lifestyle of the citizens of the united states . 
so i want to thank the gentlewoman for reserving this time so we can help educate our colleagues and america on something as important as liquid natural gas and its implications to their budgets at home . 
mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for working with me to put this into the base bill . 
since 1999 natural gas prices have more than tripled to over $ 7 . 
it is off the charts now . 
it is projected that if we do not do anything about natural gas supplies , it could reach $ 13 , $ 14 by 2020 . 
what does that mean ? 
it means higher heating bills ; 65 percent of my constituents heat their homes in nebraska by natural gas . 
by the way , we have lost , mr. chairman , about 3 million jobs in the industrial manufacturing bases . 
just for our farmers , our agricultural folks in the midwest , farmers have seen the prices of nitrogen fertilizer increase from $ 175 per ton in 2000 to more than $ 400 this planting season , and we have lost half of our fertilizer manufacturers chasing the lower natural gas prices . 
mr. chairman , in regard to safety , the gentleman wrote into this language specifically giving the states the right to participate in this process , and i encourage my colleagues to vote `` no . '' madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
once again the house is debating a `` comprehensive energy package. '' i do have to say that as far as the ways and means committee is concerned , it is just slightly less comprehensive than it has been in the past . 
but that is because we understand , having gone through a conference with the senate , the kind of package that will maximize our chances in producing a fair and balanced tax section . 
in discussing what we do in this particular bill , and i enjoy hearing people discuss it as though it is the conference report that is in front of us , it is in fact , and i will say it flatly , and in a negotiating position , before us to sit down and work with the senate . 
it does have renewable provisions in the tax package , but by a small amount . 
the majority focus is on the infrastructure of this country , the electric power lines , gas collecting lines , and supporting a structure which will be the backbone of our energy needs clearly for the next quarter of a century before any of the innovative approaches begin to carry a significant share of our energy needs . 
i might also caution members not to get too carried away looking at this particular piece of legislation under the heading of an energy bill and assume that we have done nothing since the conference report that was agreed upon between the house and senate was passed by the house and not the senate . 
i would ask you to go back and refer to legislation passed just a short time ago under the title of the working families tax relief act . 
in that bill we had incentives for wind , open biomass , electric cars , and alternative-fuel vehicles . 
in the american jobs creation act , we provided incentives for ethanol , biodiesel , geothermal , solar , open biomass , municipal solid mass , and refined coal . 
i know the other side is going to offer that constant lament , what have you done for me lately ? 
the answer is , let us get to conference , put together a package , once again come to the floor of the house with a conference agreement , we will pass that conference agreement , and the senate will pass that conference agreement . 
and i will conclude my opening remarks by saying , i was very pleased that on the ways to the means committee , five democrats understood , one , the strategy that we are undertaking , and , two , supported the content of that strategy by voting for the ways and means position . 
i know a number of people have a definition of bipartisan , but based upon the recent history of the ways and means committee , five democrats supporting a measure offered in that committee is unprecedented bipartisan support . 
and i was very pleased for it . 
madam chairman , i retain the balance of my time . 
madam chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from pennsylvania ( ms. hart ) xz4001680 , a member of the committee . 
madam chairman , i yield myself 10 seconds . 
i anxiously look forward to the debate on the democrat substitute and would willingly yield time to the gentleman from washington ( mr. mcdermott ) xz4002620 to make all the points he just made on the majority bill on the minority bill since they include in their entirety the tax section of the majority 's bill . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from arizona ( mr. hayworth ) xz4001730 . 
madam chairman , i yield myself 15 seconds . 
i also look forward to seeking to yield to my friend from texas ( mr. doggett ) xz4001110 during the debate on the minority substitute bill , because the provision he just viciously attacked on the floor as being totally unacceptable is in the democrats ' bill as well . 
i look forward to having those words spoken against their own substitute because it contains exactly the same language . 
madam chairman , i yield 1 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from illinois ( mr. weller ) xz4004290 . 
madam chairman , how much time is left ? 
and the other side ? 
and who has the right to close ? 
we have one speaker remaining . 
madam chairman , i would inquire of the chair , the 1 minute that was on the minority side , does that expire ? 
madam chairman , i appreciate that , and i yield myself 15 seconds . 
if we could get the mileage out of the gallon of gasoline that they get out of 1 minute , we would not need an energy policy in this country . 
first of all , i want to thank the five democrats on the committee on ways and means who had the courage to vote for this excellent tax provision . 
understanding the pressure they are under , based upon the comments that were just made , truly it was a heroic vote . 
madam chairman , it is now my pleasure to yield the remainder of the time to the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. english ) xz4001230 . 
mr. chairman , yes , we have an energy crisis , and the sad thing is that it did not start this year , but neither did this bill which started more than 4 years ago . 
maybe with gas prices hovering near $ 2.50 a gallon , we can finally get this bill to the president 's desk . 
i was glad to see that my bipartisan amendment extending daylight saving time for 2 months was included in this bill . 
estimates show that it will save more than 100 , 000 barrels of oil for every day that we extend daylight saving time . 
i want to remind my colleagues that 2 years ago , we had a blackout , an electric blackout through much of the midwest . 
in this bill we finally impose reliability standards on the electric industry so that , hopefully , that will not happen again . 
i want to say , too , as the cochair of the auto caucus , it was important for the chairman to agree to add $ 200 million for hybrid and alternative fuel cell vehicles . 
we hope that the senate legislation will even go more in terms of incentives so that private consumers going to the showroom are going to be able to take advantage of those incentives to purchase those vehicles so that we can get those on the road . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 , the chairman of the powerful energy and commerce committee . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from the great state of michigan ( mr. rogers ) xz4003421 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from texas ( mr. burgess ) xz4000520 . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i have a trivia question for you . 
what automaker has the most vehicles that get a highway fuel economy of 30 miles per gallon or greater ? 
i will give you a hint . 
they make 19 of the vehicles , and that is more than any other automaker . 
do you know who it is ? 
general motors . 
what frustrates me about this debate is the misconception that cafe standards are some holy grail that foreign manufacturers can get to , but domestic ones can not . 
we do not need to micromanage our auto manufacturers . 
they are doing just fine . 
cafe standards are being met and they are being exceeded virtually every single day . 
but the more important work is finding real alternatives to gasoline-powered cars and developing them , for every dollar we force the auto companies to spend on the cafe standards is a dollar they will not spend on hybrids , hydrogen fuel cell and other alternative fuel cell vehicles . 
i am sick of hearing the same old debate . 
i want to get us to the point where we talk about which one of the new alternatives we are most excited about . 
i urge you to defeat this used amendment and vote for a new car . 
please defeat this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i thank my distinguished chairman for yielding me this time , and i rise in strong support of the rogers amendment to the johnson underlying amendment . 
currently , there is one test conducted on vehicles to determine the fuel economy rating . 
the johnson amendment would require epa to change that fuel economy testing for label purposes . 
what this will result in is having automakers being forced to do two or three or four , or maybe even more , separate tests . 
that costs money , more money , and is unnecessary and more burdensome . 
additionally , as written , the johnson amendment could also affect how cafe is calculated . 
the johnson amendment could lower the fleet fuel economy averages of manufacturers that make compliance with the cafe standards much more difficult . 
instead of running the substantial risk under the johnson amendment , the rogers/ kilpatrick bipartisan perfecting amendment makes a technical change to clarify that automakers do not have to run multiple duplicative tests to update fuel economy labeling and ensures that the cafe program is not manipulated . 
let us take this into a normal example . 
this morning , many of us , we live in different states , but we come and commute here to washington . 
i live in virginia ; it is 7 miles from the capitol here to my house . 
it took me more than 30 minutes to get in today . 
if i had to drive 7 miles in my town of st . 
joseph , michigan , it would take me about 12 minutes . 
we know that when we buy a car . 
i had a staff member that bought a great new ford hybrid vehicle the other day . 
he gets accelerated cafe , or he gets much better gas mileage with that car when he is in the big city driving . 
when he goes to chicago , to see the cubs or the white sox , or whoever , he gets a lot better mileage because he is stopping and starting all the time . 
in kalamazoo , which is a city of 100 , 000 , where he lives , he does not get quite the same mileage because it is a different scenario . 
you can not have 20 or 30 , who knows how many tests . 
maybe it is like boutique fuels . 
you have all these different areas , people with different driving habits , and you can not expect that the epa is going to put a laundry list of these different tests on the window . 
we know that when we buy our vehicles . 
we know about what it is going to be based on , our history of purchasing cars . 
and , frankly , a duplicative test with these multiple numbers will only be more confusing rather than less confusing to the consumer . 
that is why i strongly urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle , as we have with this bipartisan amendment , to support the rogers amendment to the johnson amendment so we can make more sense for every consumer as they purchase a new american car . 
mr. chairman , let me say at the beginning , i am no fan of mtbe , and my state has banned it . 
but let me point out a couple of facts . 
in this bill , the lust fund , leaking underground storage tanks fund , has $ 2.1 billion to clean up these tanks . 
we have an additional $ 1 billion for oxygenate as well . 
and a precedent exists . 
the federal government mandated that we had to have oxygenate in this bill in the past and we have done that before , we have done that with flu vaccine , we have done that for biomaterials access insurance fund . 
the government mandated it . 
we have to protect people that carried through on those provisions . 
i accept the agreement that is going to be made between the gentleman from new hampshire ( mr. bass ) xz4000190 and the chairman to work this out . 
please vote `` no '' on the capps amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume , and i want to pick up where my chairman , the gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson ) xz4001800 , left off and also personally thank the staff , because without their able assistance , we would not be here today and the product before this chamber would not be of the quality that it is . 
so i do want to personally thank terry tyborowski and tracy laturner of the majority staff , as well as john blazey , scott burnison , and kevin cook . 
on the minority side , although again , as the chairman pointed out , this was a bipartisan effort , dixon butler . 
we have core detailees : felicia kirksey and taunja berquam , and i appreciate very much their help , as well as kenny kraft from the chairman 's office , and peder moorbjerg from mine . 
mr. chairman , i would want to thank chairman hobson , first of all , for his very good work ; as i mentioned in subcommittee and full committee , his fairness , his judicious temperament , the fact that he is a gentleman , and also that he has exercised a great deal of foresight and leadership over the last 3 years as chairman of the subcommittee . 
i certainly feel that the chairman has outlined the elements of the value of the legislation before us very fairly . 
i would prefer to take somewhat of a different tack , this being my seventh bill as a ranking member , and illustratively point out the three areas of the bill where over the last 3 years the chairman has had a direction , he has exercised leadership and courage , and has provided us with an excellent work product . 
the first area is the area of high-performance computing , an area where the united states invented the field and long held undisputed leadership in the world . 
several years ago , however , that leadership was challenged . 
in the house bill for fiscal year 2004 , the committee recommended an increase in funding to enable the department of energy to acquire additional advanced computing capability and to initiate longer-term research and development . 
the department used $ 25 million of these funds to engage a team , including oak ridge national lab and cray computer , to pursue a leadership-class supercomputer and the next-generation computer architectures . 
despite being faced with budget constraints , the department of energy office of science sustained this increase in 2005 . 
however , pursuing a $ 100 million-plus leadership-class machine with level funding was not going to put us back in the lead . 
so , once again , the committee recommended an increase to the request to support the office of science initiative to develop the hardware , software , and applied mathematics necessary for a leadership-class supercomputer to meet scientific computational needs . 
this year , the president 's request for fiscal year 2006 pulled back from the strong support favored by the congress , and such a cutback would tend to undermine the progress towards actually achieving a leadership-class u.s. supercomputer . 
so the recommendation before us today increases funding for advanced scientific computing research by $ 39 million : $ 25 million for hardware , $ 5 million for computational research , and $ 9 million for competitive university grants to restore the ongoing level of core research in this area that the president 's budget recommendation cut . 
by taking the long-term perspective of the last 3 years and sustaining support for a highly desirable outcome , the chairman and the committee and all of its members are doing their part to ensure that the u.s. reasserts its technological leadership . 
the second area that has been a subject of concern for a number of years , in an area where we reduced funding , is laboratory directed research and development . 
it is an area that grew out of all proportion to its value at the beginning of this decade . 
this area also raised concerns of financial oversight and the use of federal funds for purposes for which it was not appropriated . 
as an initial effort to get its arms around this program , which reached an aggregate funding level in fiscal year 2003 of $ 365 million , the committee mandated a comprehensive report on projects from the department of energy and initiated a gao investigation . 
in developing recommendations for last year 's bill , the committee based its guidance and statement of concerns on the results of those investigations and reports . 
this year , the president 's budget , recognizing the concerns of the committee and the constraints on funding , reduced the percentage allowed for lab-directed research at weapons labs from 6 percent to 5 percent . 
the committee today is recommending that lab-directed research be limited explicitly to $ 250 million for 2006 , to be allocated to the labs by the department of energy . 
a quarter billion dollars is a healthy level of funding that could be used to fix many problems in energy research and water infrastructure , to name but two . 
as we state in the report , the committee recognizes the value of conducting discretionary research at the national laboratories , but we have now brought the funding level to this research back within reason and given it a sense of direction . 
and my last illustration , if you would , of a sense of direction that we have had over the last 3 years is in the area of nuclear weapons . 
it is the most sensitive area of activities under the energy and water development appropriations . 
here , under chairman hobson 's courageous leadership , denial of funding has been effectively used to chart a safer and more efficient course for the future of our nuclear deterrents . 
in particular , coming into fiscal year 2004 appropriations , the president was asking for funds for a robust nuclear earth penetrator , for studies of new nuclear weapons potentially for new missions , for funds to proceed with the preparation of a modern pit facility to manufacture 450 plutonium triggers , and a shift to an 18-month readiness posture for a return to underground nuclear testing . 
taken together , these policy initiatives signaled a shift in nuclear weapons policy . 
in 2004 , the committee , among other things , reduced funding for the robust nuclear earth penetrator to $ 5 million from $ 15 million , ultimately agreeing to $ 7.5 million in conference ; zeroed out funds for proceeding with the modern pit facility ; and held the test readiness posture at 24 months . 
most significantly , in 2004 , $ 4 million of the funds for advanced weapons concepts were fenced so that they could not be spent until the administration delivered a nuclear weapons stockpile plan . 
without this action , there is no doubt that the plan would not exist . 
today , it does . 
in fiscal year 2005 , the committee went further and zeroed funding for the earth penetrator , while maintaining a 24-month test readiness posture . 
the committee has taken a constructive approach in trying to positively influence better policies . 
at the insistence of the committee , reasonable new approaches have been funded , including a reliable replacement warhead . 
in this year 's bill , the committee is solidifying the progress made last year and in the previous year . 
first , advanced concepts was missing from the president 's request and is essentially no longer under consideration . 
secondly , the earth penetrator funding is again zero in the committee recommendation , and third , test readiness posture is held to 24 months . 
finally , the reliable replacement warhead concept was included in the president 's request . 
the committee is working to accelerate the implicit transformation of the newest nuclear deterrent stockpile by increasing funds to $ 25 million , while slowing programs extending the life of old weapons . 
essentially , in this bill as well , mr. chairman , we are taking an advanced look . 
we have called for the army corps of engineers , the bureau of reclamation , as well as the department of energy to undertake 5-year plans in programs . 
this is an exceptional piece of legislation , and i would ask my colleagues to support it . 
i recommend that all members join me in supporting this bill . 
its preparation has been bipartisan and the chairman has been fair throughout its preparation . 
i would add my appreciation to the staff led on the majority side by kevin cook . 
he is joined by terry tyborowski , john blazey , scott burnison , and tracy laturner . 
they are a strong team . 
on the minority staff , i would thank dixon butler . 
this year we have two fine detailees from the army corps : taunja berquam helping the majority and felicia kirksey helping the minority . 
i would also thank kenny kraft on chairman hobson 's staff and peder maarbjerg on my staff . 
this is my seventh year as ranking member on the energy and water development appropriations subcommittee . 
in a few professions in our society seventh years are sabbaticals and times for reflection . 
in the congress , we ca n't take a year off , but i feel compelled to reflect . 
during my years on this committee it has been my privilege to serve with five subcommittee chairmen , and now , it has been my pleasure to serve with dave hobson for three years . 
during this time , chairman hobson has led our subcommittee to take a long-term perspective on a number of important issues and this is resulting in some profound and positive changes . 
here are three examples . 
high performance computing is an area where the united states invented the field and long held undisputed leadership in the world . 
several years ago , that leadership was challenged by japan with their development of the earth simulator . 
in the house bill for fy 2004 , the committee recommended an increase of $ 40 million to enable doe to `` acquire additional advanced computing capability . 
... 
and to initiate longer-term research and development on next generation computer architectures. '' ultimately , despite being faced with budget constraints , the doe office of science sustained this increase in the president 's fy 2005 budget . 
however , pursuing a $ 100 million plus leadership-class machine with level funding of $ 25 million per year will never put the united states back in the lead . 
so once again , the committee recommended an increase of $ 30 million to the request `` to support the office of science initiative to develop the hardware , software , and applied mathematics necessary for a leadership-class supercomputer to meet scientific computation needs. '' it must be noted that the committee insisted that at least $ 5 million of this increase be reserved for computational research and not allow additional funds to go to hardware alone . 
in the face of an even more constrained funding environment , the president 's request for fy 2006 pulled back from the strong support favored by the congress . 
such a cutback , if sustained , would tend to undermine the progress toward actually achieving a leadership-class us supercomputer . 
so , the recommendation before us today increases funding for advanced scientific computing research by $ 39 million -- $ 25 million for hardware , $ 5 million for computational research , and $ 9 million for competitive university grants to restore the on-going level of core research in this area that the president 's budget recommended for cuts . 
by taking the long-term perspective and sustaining support for a highly desirable outcome , the committee is doing its part to ensure that the u.s. reasserts it technological leadership in the area of supercomputing -- a technical capability that underpins our ability to invent the future . 
laboratory directed research and development ( ldrd ) is an area that grew out of all proportion to its value at the beginning of this decade . 
this area also raised concerns of financial oversight and the use of federal funds for purposes for which it was not appropriated . 
as an initial effort to get its arms around this program , which reached an aggregate funding level in fy 2003 of $ 365 million per year , the committee mandated a comprehensive report on ldrd projects from doe and initiated a gao investigation of ldrd . 
in developing its recommendations for fy 2005 , the committee based its guidance and statement of concerns on the results of the gao investigation and what had been learned from reviewing the extensive doe reports . 
the fy 2005 committee report directs doe to shift to direct requests for ldrd . 
the president 's budget request for fy 2006 , recognizing the concerns of the committee and the constraints on funding , reduced the percentage allowed for ldrd at weapons labs from 6 % to 5 % . 
the committee is today recommending that ldrd be limited explicitly to $ 250 million in fy 2006 , to be allocated to the labs by doe . 
a quarter billion dollars is a healthy level of funding that could be used to fix many problems in energy research , water infrastructure , etc. , so the `` committee [ truly ] recognizes the value of conducting discretionary research at doe 's national laboratories '' , but has now brought the funding level for this research back within reason and given it a sense of direction . 
nuclear weapons is the most sensitive area of activity under the energy and water development appropriation . 
here , under chairman hobson 's courageous leadership , the denial of funding has been effectively used to chart a safer and more efficient course for the future of our nuclear deterrent . 
in particular , coming into the fy 2004 appropriations process , the president was asking for funds for a robust nuclear earth penetrator ( rnep ) , for studies of new nuclear weapons potentially for new missions , for funds to proceed with preparation of a modern pit facility to manufacture 450 plutonium triggers per year , and a shift to an i8-month readiness posture for a return to underground nuclear testing . 
taken together , these policy initiatives signaled the house report accompanying the fy 2004 energy and water appropriations bill states , `` the fiscal year 2004 budget request is the second budget request delivered to the committee that is loosely justified on the requirements of the nuclear posture review policy document but lacking a formal plan that specifies the changes to the stockpile reflecting the president 's decision [ on the nuclear weapons stockpile plan ] . '' the committee reduced funding for the rnep to $ 5 million from $ 15 million ( ultimately agreeing to $ 7.5 million in conference ) , zeroed funds for proceeding with a modern pit facility , and held the test readiness posture at 24 months . 
most significantly , $ 4 million of the funds for advanced weapons concepts were fenced so that they could not be spent until the administration delivered a nuclear weapons stockpile plan . 
without this action , there is doubt that this plan would yet exist . 
in fy 2005 , the committee went further and zeroed funding for the rnep while maintaining the 24-month test readiness posture and continuing to defer the modern pit facility . 
but , the committee is a constructive influence and seeks to support better policies . 
at the insistence of the committee , the dangerous advanced concepts approach was scrapped and a reasonable new approach was funded -- the reliable replacement warhead ( rrw ) . 
in fy2006 , the committee is solidifying the progress made last year . 
first , advanced concepts was missing from the president 's request and is essentially no longer under consideration . 
second , rnep funding is again zero in the committee 's recommendation . 
third , test readiness posture is held to 24 months . 
fourth , the rrw concept was included in the president 's request . 
the committee is working to accelerate the implicit transformation of the u.s. nuclear deterrent stockpile by increasing funds to $ 25 million while slowing programs extending the life of old weapons . 
the promise of the rrw is that the u.s. will never need to resume nuclear weapons testing and will be able to sustain our deterrent with a smaller , less-expensive complex . 
in light of these examples where taking a longer-term perspective is showing results , i fully support the efforts in this fy2006 energy and water development appropriation to get all three principal agencies funded in this bill to adopt and communicate 5-year plans for their programs . 
further , we have long under-invested in the water infrastructure of our nation , and although this year is no exception , the bill undertakes significant efforts to help the u.s. army corps of engineers get effective control over management , particularly fiscal management of projects . 
management improvements prepare the way for the most effective use of whatever level of funding can be supplied in the future . 
concentrating funding on high-priority water projects to get them done should significantly improve the overall benefits of investment through the corps and bureau of reclamation , and so , i support this painful approach as well . 
the chairman and i are taking steps to involve all members of the subcommittee in the oversight of the programs we fund . 
everyone is being asked to concentrate on two subsets of our work . 
this also takes the long-term perspective as it will prepare our capable colleagues for future roles as chairs and rankings of appropriations subcommittees while strengthening our current work as appropriators . 
so , upon reflection , i am pleased with the positive effects of the last three years of energy and water development appropriations bills . 
far more has been accomplished than the simple funding of government programs and the accommodation of congressional priorities . 
the nation and the world are better and safer as a result . 
what a privilege and pleasure to participate ! 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 3 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind ) xz4002180 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from nevada ( ms. berkley ) xz4000240 . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from texas ( mr. gene green ) . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee ) xz4001990 . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i simply again thank the chairman for his leadership , for being a gentleman , and for being a friend ; and i recommend the legislation to my colleagues . 
mr. chairman , i have no further requests for time , and i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , h.r. 6 recognizes the key role of renewable energy and energy conservation as part of a balanced , comprehensive energy policy . 
the national priority project designation act , which is this amendment , would complement the provisions already included in h.r. 6 by creating an additional incentive for renewable energy deployment and energy conservation at virtually no cost to the federal government . 
the national priority project designation would not only recognize the winning projects , it would also educate the public and the business community about the potential of renewable energy to contribute to north american energy independence . 
the designation would draw attention to large renewable energy projects , such as large wind farms that provide hundreds of megawatts of electricity generation capacity . 
the designation would also encourage large building developments to expand on planned renewable energy and energy efficient features to add scale and deploy emerging technologies . 
this is a free-market , extremely low-cost way to encourage investment and innovation in renewable energy and energy conservation . 
in summary , the amendment , which is modeled after the malcolm baldrige quality award act , would recognize and highlight major green building and renewable energy projects . 
the legislation would direct the secretary of energy to establish guidelines for those interested in the designation to submit applications for an annual award process . 
the amendment establishes an open competitive process with minimum qualifying criteria . 
the secretary of energy would certify those projects that meet minimum criteria . 
the president would then , in consultation with the secretary of energy , select projects that advance the field of renewable energy technology and contribute to north american energy independence to receive the national priority project designation . 
winning projects would receive a medal commemorating the designation . 
winning projects could also use the national priority project designation in their advertising . 
the amendment would establish two categories of projects , pure renewable energy generation of 30 megawatts or more ; and integration of at least 30 megawatts of renewable energy generation with large , energy-efficient buildings . 
mr. chairman , i support enactment of this important energy legislation , and i urge my colleagues to include this amendment therein . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time ; and , in conclusion , i would just like to say that any national energy policy should be heavily invested in energy conservation . 
that is what this amendment attempts to do , with little cost to the taxpayer and to the government . 
i want to thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. hall ) xz4001650 and the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 for the hard work they have done on this bill and for asking that the amendment be included . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i rise today to speak in support of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
it 's a tremendous step in the right direction for this nation to achieve energy independence . 
through a combined strategy of strong r & amp ; d , efficiency and incentives we can help ensure future generations of americans a vibrant and growing economy while not having to worry about the whims of foreign influence on our energy . 
the bill also authorizes $ 200 million for the `` clean cities '' program , which will provide grants to state and local governments to acquire alternative fueled vehicles . 
i have been working in central florida over the past several years to promote research into hydrogen-powered vehicles . 
i applaud the white house for taking such a proactive stance on new technologies . 
this bill promotes a cleaner environment by encouraging new innovations and the use of alternative power sources by launching a state-of-the-art program to enable hydrogen fuel cell cars to compete in the marketplace by 2020 . 
under this bill , american consumers will have better product labeling for a number of commercial and household products so that they will be able to make more informed decisions when purchasing energy saving products . 
h.r. 6 further decreases america 's dangerous dependence on foreign oil by expanding domestic production and authorizing expansion of the strategic petroleum reserve 's capacity to 1 billion barrels of oil . 
america 's energy consumption is at an all-time high and rising , despite ongoing efficiency gains , with consumption projected to grow as our economy expands . 
if our nation is to meet these needs in the coming decades , it will be in part due to continued advances in energy efficiency and conservation -- helping to reduce our demand on foreign supply and stimulating economic growth . 
one goal is to save consumers and businesses ' money spent on energy , so they can invest , spend and grow the economy and improve our standard of living . 
expanding our energy production capacity is a key to long-term economic growth and energy independence . 
h.r. 6 encourages the great american tradition of technological innovation and creative problem solving . 
it is america working at its best and this legislation is long overdue . 
i stand in strong support of this legislation and look forward to seeing it enacted into law . 
madam chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 6 , balanced legislation designed to reduce our dependence on imported energy , a balanced approach that has earned bipartisan support in the house committee on ways and means , emphasizes conservation , alternative sources of energy , as well as finding more domestic sources of energy . 
i take my brief amount of time to focus on what i consider to be the most consumer-oriented provision of this legislation , legislation that rewards conservation , conservation at home . 
twenty percent of all the energy we consume in america , one-fifth of our energy consumed , is consumed at home . 
in fact , the average american spends about $ 1 , 500 a year in heating and cooling their home . 
just think if they could save 10 , 20 , 30 percent . 
it means not only energy conservation to save energy but it would help their pocketbooks as well . 
this legislation today contains provisions out of h.r. 1212 , legislation that provides up to a $ 2 , 000 tax credit that homeowners can use in their existing home to make it more energy efficient , put in better windows , better doors , better insulation , do a better job of sealing the home . 
if they meet the federal standard by reducing their energy consumption by 30 percent , they can reduce their taxes with up to a $ 2 , 000 tax credit , 20 percent of the first $ 10 , 000 they invest . 
bottom line is we need to encourage energy conservation . 
what better place to start than right at home . 
i urge bipartisan support for this legislation . 
mr. chairman , the civil works program of the corps of engineers provides water resources development projects that are important to the nation . 
i believe the restrictions on reprogramming of funds and the constraints on the use of continuing contracts contained in this bill will lead to the inefficient use of appropriated funds and will disadvantage congressionally-added projects . 
congress does not fully fund projects in a given fiscal year and the schedule for constructing these large water resources projects is subject to the weather , environmental conditions , and other dynamic circumstances . 
as a result , reprogramming and continuing contacts are important tools that allow for the efficient use of appropriated funds . 
i share the concerns that the appropriations committee has for some of the reprogramming activities of the corps of engineers and the way they have used continuing contracts for some of their projects . 
however , the constraints in this bill are too restrictive . 
section 101 only allows a reprogramming of $ 2 million or less per project . 
this is not enough to allow the corps to effectively move money around among projects when projects are delayed or when they can be accelerated . 
also , the bill earmarks nearly all available funding , which makes it impossible for the corps to pay back those projects that it took money from in previous reprogramming . 
i must disagree also with the restriction placed on continuing contracts by this bill . 
while there may have been some unwise uses of continuing contracts by the corps , the restrictions in this bill are too severe . 
they will lead to inefficient use of funds and a bias against congressional priority projects . 
as a result of the constraints on reprogramming , a lot of money will be carried over each fiscal year and work will have to be broken up into many smaller units making projects more expensive . 
current law requires the corps to use continuing contracts whenever funds are provided in an appropriations act , but there is not enough money to complete the project . 
only funds for that fiscal year are reserved , but the contractor can proceed with additional work with the understanding that payment is subject to future appropriations . 
section 104 is inconsistent with current law in that it restricts the amount of work a contractor can do to only that which can be accomplished with fy 06 funds . 
under section 104 , the contractor can not proceed at his own risk in anticipation of fy 07 and future year funding . 
the contractor will have to stop work and wait for a new contract the next year . 
section 104 is legislative in nature and i intend to make a point of order that will strike it from the bill . 
section 105 further restricts the use of continuing contracts and has the remarkable effect of restricting the corps ' ability to carry out congressionally-added projects in this appropriation bill . 
section 105 states that none of the funds provided in fy 06 may be used to award a continuing contract that extends into fy 07 unless the administration budgets for the project in fy 07 . 
this means that even if a member has funding for a project in this bill , for fy 06 , not fully funded , there are three options : ( 1 ) hope to award a continuing contract before administration comes out with its budget in february of 2006 , ( 2 ) award a single year contract for only one increment of the project ( resulting in increased costs ) , or ( 3 ) wait until fiscal year 2008 to award a continuing contract for the project ( delaying project construction and project benefits ) . 
these restrictions apply to on-going as well as new projects . 
in alaska , there are currently eight projects under construction using continuing contracts . 
seven of these are not in the president 's budget . 
i expect that before this bill becomes law , it will contain funding for all of these projects . 
nevertheless , under section 105 of the bill , a continuing contract could not be used in fy 06 , and the corps will have to break the projects into smaller pieces or wait until fy 08 to spend the fy 06 appropriated funds . 
i believe the restrictions in this bill will delay these important projects in alaska and make them more expensive . 
this is a problem that will be repeated for other members for projects all over the country . 
finally , i want to applaud the committee 's efforts to get additional information from the administration during the budget process . 
information is needed for all projects , not just the ones in the administration 's budget . 
in addition , i believe that a 5-year schedule of spending for each project will allow the congress to better appropriate funding that can match the corps capabilities for individual projects . 
chairman hobson and ranking member visclosky are to be commended for their efforts to see that program management and budgeting at the corps of engineers are put back on track . 
while i have reservations about the effects of some of the measures required by this bill , i believe i can work with the committee leadership as this bill moves forward to see that my concerns are addressed in conference . 
madam chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from california ( chairman pombo ) and the gentleman from texas ( chairman barton ) for their fine work on a good piece of legislation that starts our process in becoming independent , providing energy policy , which i have heard none from the other side . 
remarkably , when i hear people talking about new innovative ideas , they do not tell me what `` new '' is . 
we are fossil-fuel oriented , and i will admit to that . 
and we are also dependent , and we have to admit to that . 
and we are talking about an area that is not pristine , an area , in fact , that should be developed that is 74 miles from the pipeline , an area that we have developed already in prudhoe bay , and we can see the great damage that is done up there . 
the caribou are using the pipeline to rub their backs on . 
the caribou are calving around the wells . 
the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey ) xz4002530 has never been there ; so he would not know . 
and we have polar bears now that are using the line for a transportation corridor . 
so , madam chairman , those who would support the markey amendment are really supporting terrorism because you do not want to develop the domestic fuel supply in this country , and we can . 
we should be doing this right now . 
and i hear people tell me it will only affect us 10 years from now . 
if you had done it when i asked you to do it 20 years ago , we could have solved that problem . 
the thing that sort of strikes me the most is i hear people talk about special interests . 
in fact , the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. markey ) xz4002530 mentioned it today about special interests , serving up special interests . 
but i would like to just read a little short letter that i happened to pick up off a web site . 
it says : `` dear friend , in a few short hours the republican energy bill will be brought up for debate and a vote on the floor of the house of representatives . 
i need your immediate help to ensure that this terrible bill never becomes law . 
`` last week in the committee on energy and commerce , i offered a series of amendments to increase the average fuel efficiency '' and it was turned down by the republicans . 
`` i then offered an amendment in the committee on resources to strip a provision from the bill that would open the arctic national wildlife refuge for oil drilling. '' the republicans again voted against it . 
`` if we allow drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge we will forever ruin this unique wilderness and allow the oil industry to target all 450 national wildlife refuges ... .. 
`` for the last 5 years , i have led the battle in the house to stop the republicans in the congress from selling off one of our greatest natural resources to the powerful special interests . 
help me continue to fight to expose to the american people the dangers of this extreme and ineffective action by making a contribution today. '' just , by the way , dial in to www.edmarkey.org/contribute . 
that is a special interest . 
`` help me to continue to fight for sensible , clean and independent energy future and shine a light on the republican party backroom attempts to cater to special interests by making an immediate contribution . 
as justice louis brandeis used to say , `sunshine is the best disinfectant. ' `` this is a blatant use of an issue to raise money , and you ought to be ashamed of yourself . 
to raise money on an issue that has nothing to do with energy , energy that this country needs . 
we are no longer the only buyers on the block in this world with china and india in the field . 
and if we do not wake up , we will have a collapse in our economy . 
we must develop not only anwr but other sources of fossil fuels in this country as well as nuclear and as well as hydro and as well as wind and all those other forms of energy and quit talking about pipe dreams , because if we do not , there will not be the jobs for the future generations and this country can not lead this world . 
and to have someone stand on this floor and offer an amendment that will take out the only provisional production is against america , against this great nation , and , in fact , would do the wrong thing for this nation . 
so i ask members to vote `` no '' on the markey amendment . 
keep this good bill intact . 
let us produce energy for this nation . 
let us provide for future generations . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the energy policy act of 2005 . 
this important legislation is critical to protecting and preserving our nation 's freedom , security , and prosperity . 
over the past decade , the united states ' energy consumption has increased by more than twelve percent ; however , our domestic production has increased by less than one-half of one percent . 
that means that our nation is more and more reliant on foreign sources of energy . 
when our nation depends on just a few countries for the majority of our energy , this adversely impacts american security . 
this is unacceptable . 
mr. chairman , the energy policy act of 2005 sets forth a comprehensive national energy policy . 
it reduces foreign energy dependence by requiring conservation and domestic exploration . 
by using less energy and opening up new areas for environmentally-responsible exploration , we will become less dependent on foreign sources of energy . 
finally , the energy policy act of 2005 will provide an environment of certainty and stability that will foster prosperity in america . 
rising energy prices is like a tax that americans must pay everyday in the form of higher gas prices , higher costs to heat and cool our homes , and higher prices to move products across the country . 
having a comprehensive energy policy will allow businesses to flourish as we will have reliable and dependable sources of energy . 
mr. chairman , as a supporter of the energy policy act of 2005 , i encourage my colleagues to vote for this responsible measure . 
mr. chairman , i rise to claim the time in opposition . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
i agree with my colleagues and i agree with the president . 
i agree , with the price of oil above $ 50 a barrel , we do not need relief . 
this provision does not do that . 
let me be clear . 
under the current mms rules , what this provision would do would simply provide relief for those companies making multiyear in many cases , multi , hundreds of millions of dollars of investments to produce oil for our country 's needs . 
we have a choice . 
many of my colleagues do not want us drilling for oil off the coast of florida and do not want us to drill for oil off the coast of california . 
i would ask those colleagues to join with me in providing incentives so we can drill for oil in the deep waters of the gulf of mexico . 
the people of louisiana welcome this production . 
we know it is good for our state , our country , and for our economy . 
we have a choice . 
we have to meet the growing energy needs of our country . 
what this provision simply does is make it economical for companies to take greater risk than they have ever had to take before to allow them to raise the capital and spend hundreds of millions of dollars , maybe even a billion dollars , on these rigs to produce the energy that our country so desperately needs , that our farmers need , that our petrochemical industry needs . 
we have a choice . 
we do stand with the president saying , no , we do not need relief at $ 50 , but we do need relief to make sure that there continues to be production , especially if the price falls below that threshold . 
but we have a choice : do we produce our own energy needs , or do we become increasingly dependent on foreign sources ? 
we have a choice . 
do we drill in the deep waters of the gulf of mexico where such production is welcomed and invited , or do we look to other areas where that production is not welcomed and not invited ? 
i do stand behind our president , and i invite my colleagues to also stand with our president and support the language as written , support the overall energy bill , and vote for domestic production . 
vote to keep manufacturing in our country , vote so we can become more independent of foreign sources of energy . 
the language as written is good language . 
it does not provide relief today . 
it does not provide those incentives today , but it allows companies to raise money to take risks to produce our country 's domestic energy needs . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i must rise in opposition to this amendment . 
knowing the economy of louisiana and particularly south louisiana , my district is very reliant on the oil and gas industry . 
the gentleman from louisiana ( mr. jindal ) xz4006340 gave some numbers that apply to what has happened with the leaseholds out on the outer continental shelf in recent times . 
just at port fourchon , which is the focal point for the gulf of mexico for oil drilling , deep and shallow water , we have increased the number of jobs there by thousands . 
we have 125 companies that have located at port fourchon , and there are 25 companies presently on the list waiting for locations to open up at the port . 
i am concerned , as most are , about the energy crisis in this country . 
i understand my colleagues ' concern about subsidies and big oil , as everyone describes it . 
at the same time , in order for us to reach some independence , we need to continue to encourage deep water , shallow water , oil , gas and every type of mining that will help us get out of this problem . 
mr. speaker , on rollcall no . 
112 i was unavoidably detained . 
had i been present , i would have voted `` yea. '' stated against : mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentlewoman very much for organizing this effort on behalf of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
as we all know , gas prices are skyrocketing , as are the costs of heating and cooling our homes . 
many families and businesses are struggling under the additional financial burden . 
i am encouraged we have the opportunity to tackle this issue head on and take the necessary steps to reduce the cost of energy . 
hard-working americans are depending on us to take action . 
h.r. 6 will lower energy prices , strengthen the economy , generate hundreds of thousands of new jobs , and encourage greater energy conservation and efficiency . 
this bill will also reduce our dependence on foreign oil and encourage investment into alternative energy sources . 
furthermore , this bill will provide relief to our hard-working farmers by providing tax incentives and money for research and development for ethanol and biodiesel energy sources . 
i hope all of our colleagues are going to vote for this vital piece of legislation . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of the conaway amendment . 
i come from an energy state . 
i come from a state that produces oil and gas . 
it produces not only oil and gas , but it produces jobs for our local economy . 
and i rise in support of this amendment because it is a jobs amendment . 
in the 1980s and the 1990s we saw a great fluctuation in the price of oil and gas . 
we lost some jobs and some of those jobs never came back . 
even though today we have higher oil and gas prices , some of those folks that were involved in the industry never came back . 
that tax base has been lost , and young people are not entering into the industry like they were before . 
they are not entering into the plm programs , the programs that are so vital to our industry . 
so it is very important that we support this amendment so that we have more tool pushers , more roughnecks and more truck drivers in places like oklahoma . 
i would ask each member to vote for this amendment . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions ) xz4003670 for yielding me time . 
many of you have heard the story about the fellow that was sitting on his porch and water came trickling through his yard . 
a fellow drove by in his jeep and said , jump on , the dam is giving way ; this place is going to be flooded . 
and he said , i 've got faith in god ; god is going to save me . 
the guy drives off . 
here comes more water . 
here comes a boat . 
the guy in the boat says , jump in , there is more water coming . 
the guy , no , i have faith in god ; god is going to save me . 
and he climbs up on the rooftop as the water gets higher and higher . 
here comes a helicopter . 
he drops a ladder and with a megaphone says , grab hold of the ladder . 
the man says , no , i have got faith in god ; god is going to save me . 
the water gets higher . 
the man drowns . 
he goes to heaven . 
he says , god i had faith in you . 
why did you not save me ? 
god said , i sent you a jeep and a boat and helicopter , why did you not make use of it ? 
when we hear people crying today , we need oil , we need gasoline with prices that are down , we need natural gas prices to come down , i can not help but hear this small voice saying , use what i gave you . 
this nation has been so richly blessed with so much in the way of resources . 
it is time to end the excuses . 
we can always find excuses , things we do not like about any bill . 
they sure do that down the hall . 
it is time to end the excuses . 
it is time down the hall to finally do the right thing and use the resources with which this nation has been so richly blessed . 
madam speaker , i want to thank the gentlewoman from tennessee for yielding to me . 
i very much appreciate it because this is such an important issue for all of our country , but especially for our district in east texas . 
the eastern side of my district is louisiana , and it is actually quite a help for louisiana as well . 
but the things we are talking about , the resources that we have in our district include oil , gas , coal , lignite , biomass material . 
that could be made from things like corn maize or soy , but also from forestry material that is left over when lumber is made . 
there are so many jobs that will be assisted and created . 
it is estimated that there could be half a million jobs created as a result of the energy bill that we are discussing here . 
some people worry about the environmental effects of an energy bill and encouraging energy production , but i want to tell the members i am familiar with oil wells , i am familiar with gas wells , i am familiar with lignite . 
i was just in a couple of lignite mines in my district in the last 2 weeks , and we worry about the destruction of property , but when we see what has been done and the way the land is reclaimed and reestablished , it ends being a work of art . 
the hardwoods are put back . 
the streams are back better than ever . 
the hillsides , it is just beautiful what has been done . 
plus the renewable resources like pine trees are there . 
it is a good thing for east texas . 
of course we have heard in anwr previously that it would destroy the caribou population . 
when the pipeline was going to be laid , many of us remember back in the 1970s they said it was just going to decimate the caribou . 
as it turned out , there were about 3 , 000 caribou back then . 
now there are around 32 , 000 , as it turns out , because that oil is warmed as it goes through the pipeline to keep it flowing . 
when caribou want to ask each other for dates , they go to the pipeline and it makes them really romantic-thinking . 
so it has actually increased the population there . 
when people complained we should not have oil and gas wells out in the coast because it is going to destroy the fish and the teeming life in the gulf of mexico , it turns out after they put offshore rigs out there , that is where commercial fishermen went because that was an artificial reef and it ended up helping fishing as well . 
there is so much technology that has been developed over the last 30 and 40 years that has been good for everybody . 
we also have the eastman plant , actually more in harrison county but there by longview , and they use natural gas to make plastic products , all kinds of products there . 
this will help them . 
it will create cheaper natural gas . 
if we have cheaper natural gas , the papermill that had to close down in lufkin because they could not get cheap enough gas ; they are planning on reopening if that can happen . 
that just does not help lufkin . 
it helps st . 
augustine and hemphill . 
they worked there at the paper mill . 
clear up in longview there is a man who lost 7 percent of his business when the paper mill closed all because of energy costs . 
these things can come back . 
but not only that , we do a lot of drilling . 
these small business companies in east texas , we have got the drillers themselves that go back to work . 
we have got land men going to work getting leases on the land . 
we have got the owners that are getting that lease money . 
we have got people that retain mineral interests getting royalties back . 
we have got people that are going back during the production , the service companies rehiring folks . 
we have got the steel producers , companies that are renting equipment to those facilities . 
we have got independent drillers that are doing well . 
there are workers of all kinds and their families that are all having their lives made better . 
we have got clean coal technologies that are going to assist us and keep the air clean and make the environment just as good or better after the production of coal . 
there are so many good things that result for the nation and especially for my district . 
and let me just say on a personal note , with all of the things that a good energy bill will do for the nation and do for our district , i feel good about what we are doing and i appreciate the gentlewoman 's yielding to me because it does mean a lot . 
to take it to a very personal note , i have got three daughters . 
two are away in college now , and our youngest is a junior in high school . 
sarah 's birthday is tomorrow , and i do not remember not being there on the morning of one of my kids ' birthdays . 
she will be 17 tomorrow . 
and i hate like heck missing her birthday tomorrow , but we are going to pass us an energy bill tomorrow . 
and if i did not believe with all my heart that i was helping to make this country better for my children , then i would but we are doing good , and i am proud to be a part of a majority that is working to make america better . 
and i thank the gentlewoman from tennessee very much for yielding to me . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i offer this amendment to address what is a critical shortage of labor within the oil and gas industry and the mineral industries . 
since 1999 there has been a significant drop in the number of jobs in the oil field . 
as the price of oil and natural gas have fluctuated , workers have come and gone in this industry . 
we are now at a point where we are at a critical shortage of workers across the spectrum , roughnecks , well service hands , pulling unit hands and others , as well as the technical engineers , geologists , geophysicists . 
they are key to continuing the search for domestic production . 
as an example , one community in my district , kermit , texas , in 1998-1999 had some 9 , 000 people living there . 
as a result of the downturn in those years and the loss of jobs , that community now has 6 , 000 people living there . 
even with the significant increases in the price of natural gas and crude oil that we are experiencing today , those people have not come back to kermit , texas . 
we are facing this critical shortage . 
my amendment would simply require the energy department , in consultation with the interior department as well as the labor department , to conduct a study of the impact that this shortage is having and to present possible solutions to the shortage . 
by way of trying to be a bit dramatic , each barrel of oil we import , each mcf of natural gas we import , adds to our trade deficit each and every day . 
the need to import a barrel of oil or the need to import an mcf of natural gas causes us to remain dependent on those foreign sources . 
i speak in favor of this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from new mexico ( mr. pearce ) xz4003130 , a former oil and gas company owner . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from texas ( mr. barton ) xz4000180 , the chairman of the committee on energy and commerce . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i would like to close with one statistic . 
in 1981 there were some 1.6 million people employed in the oil and gas industry . 
today , at the end of 2004 , that number now just barely reaches 500 , 000 . 
a dramatic decrease in the number of good , solid jobs in this economy and jobs in an industry that is clearly vital to our national interest . 
i encourage my colleagues to vote in favor of the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
